The delivery truck snaked its way over Northern California’s highways. Analysts watched every detail of its trip. They saw the stops the driver took. They knew the weather. Most important, they knew the status of its precious cargo: thousands of doses of COVID-19 vaccine.
In the truck were boxes of vaccine in trays. Each tray held at least 975 doses. They were packed with dry ice, sensors, and tracking devices. In December, Pfizer was the first company to ship COVID-19 vaccines in the United States. Pfizer’s doses must be kept frozen at between -112°F and -76°F. That’s below normal freezer temperatures. (Your home freezer is about 0°F.)
KEEP IT COLD A freezer at a hospital in Louisville, Kentucky, holds vials of the Pfizer vaccine. It’s being stored at -74° Celsius, or about -101° Fahrenheit.
The analysts saw a problem. Two of the trays were too cold. The driver was told not to deliver them. “They never left the truck,” Gustave Perna told reporters on December 16. He runs logistics for Operation Warp Speed. That’s the U.S. vaccine program. “We returned them immediately.”
Shipping millions of vials of vaccine is hard enough. Keeping them properly frozen is even harder. So the government, drugmakers, and delivery companies have worked together. They’ve made a network of monitoring devices and detection systems.
Helpful Technology
Every box of Pfizer’s vaccine has a GPS device. It also has a temperature monitor. And it has a bar code. The bar code is scanned once it reaches a destination. If the doses go to the wrong place, or if they get too hot or cold, officials are alerted. 
ON THE MOVE UPS employees in Louisville, Kentucky, receive a shipment of Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine. Boxes are then loaded onto trucks and sent out for delivery.
This information goes to the Vaccine Operations Center. That’s in Washington, D.C. Officials there watch over Operation Warp Speed. The team saw the temperature problem unfold in Northern California. Later, it saw the problem in Mobile, Alabama. “Same anomaly,” Perna said.
This was one of the first delivery problems Perna’s team faced. It won’t be the last. But the technology meant to detect problems had worked. Replacement trays were sent to Alabama and California.
More On the Way
Another vaccine, made by the company Moderna, is now being distributed. It requires long-term storage and shipping at -4°F. That’s far less cold than the Pfizer vaccine requires. And more vaccines are nearing approval.
READY TO GO In the U.S., distribution of COVID-19 vaccines began in December. Here, workers in Olive Branch, Mississippi, prepare to ship Moderna’s vaccine.
To keep track of it all, the government made new software. It’s called Tiberius. It lets state and federal agencies track their orders. They can follow their vaccines within the areas they serve. “They can dive in and really go into great detail on making decisions,” says Operation Warp Speed’s Deacon Maddox.
Operation Warp Speed hoped to vaccinate 20 million Americans against COVID-19 by the end of 2020. But only about 4½ million people had gotten a dose by January 4. That’s according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Former CDC director Dr. Tom Frieden spoke to TIME. He said the country “should be focusing on getting the vaccine out as rapidly, as widely, and as equitably as possible.”
IT'S HERE A worker takes a box of the Pfizer vaccine to the pharmacy at Boston Medical Center, in Massachusetts, on December 14.
The first people to get vaccinated have been healthcare workers and the elderly. But even with all the technology at work, a vaccine isn’t expected to be available to most Americans until at least spring.
GETTING A SHOT Dr. Anthony Fauci receives his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine, on December 22.

|||||Joe Bot and Rob Ot are robots. They are also best friends. The two pals live on a faraway planet. They are characters in a new book series. The Bots books are graphic novels. They are written by RUSS BOLTS and illustrated by JAY COOPER. The first two Bots books are in stores now.
“Joe and Rob are incredibly positive and friendly robots,” Cooper told TFK. “It’s almost like they are superheroes,” Bolts adds. “But their friendship is the superpower.”
|||||Theaters are fun! But many have closed because of COVID-19. Do we still need them? Readers weigh in.
YES
Ava Jung, 8

Paramus, New Jersey
When people go to a theater, they can enjoy the movie without getting distracted. If theaters stay open, they can hire more people. Then new workers can earn money and buy stuff. That would help the economy recover.
NO
Camille Chien, 10
Sunnyvale, California
Some movie theaters are filthy. Most people take their snacks into the theater to eat. What if you eat and then touch some part of your chair, then keep eating? The germs on the chair could get into your mouth. Yuck!
NO
Zachary Haubenstock, 10

San Diego, California
You can watch a movie in the comfort of your home. You can wear your PJs. You can even have an outdoor movie night with friends and practice social distancing. Theaters were struggling even before COVID-19.
YES
Finnian Rawsthorne, 11
Grand Blanc, Michigan

You might have forgotten how much fun it is to go to the movies. When the pandemic ends, you’ll want to go. They have slushies, candy, gigantic screens, and nice chairs with cup holders. And you don’t have to clean up!
|||||When you think of a journalist, do you see a reporter with a pen and paper? Writing is one way to tell a story, but some stories are told without words.
Photojournalists are reporters too. Instead of a pen and paper, they use a camera to capture a story in photographs. You can see their work in the pictures that appear with an article. Pictures help readers visualize the people and places being described. Photojournalists also create photo essays, which tell a story with few or no words.
Meet Alice Aedy
Alice Aedy is a photojournalist and documentary filmmaker based in London, England. She specializes in stories about social justice and human rights, but she also covers environmental issues. Aedy told TIME for Kids that she’s “passionate about climate change” because of how it affects people’s lives.
Photojournalism helps people understand current events and gives context to important moments in history. So photojournalists aren’t just photographers. They’re storytellers. Like other reporters, they need to be on the scene and able to interview people about what’s going on.
Aedy has traveled the world to do her reporting. While working, she spends as much time as she can in the country where a story is taking place and does lots of interviews to get the full story. “I want my photos to build empathy,” she says, “and make people care.”
A Critical Eye
Aedy says that photography, like all forms of media, should be viewed “with a critical eye.” Viewers should ask themselves questions like “What is the context of the photo? When and where was it taken? Was the photo taken with the permission of its subjects? Why was it taken?”
It’s also important for viewers to take time to think about how a photograph makes them feel. “We’re bombarded with images every single day,” Aedy says. “So my hope is that whatever you’re looking at, you just truly engage with it.”
|||||In November, Hurricane Eta made landfall in Central America. It caused destruction from Panama to Florida. Two weeks later, Hurricane Iota arrived. It was more powerful. It rained on places that were already flooded. Juan Orlando Hernández is president of Honduras. He called Iota a “bomb” that would leave the region in tatters.

According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the 2020 Atlantic hurricane season was the most active on record. Iota was the 30th named storm to brew in the Atlantic since May. It was the 13th to become a full-blown hurricane. 
FLOOD ZONE On November 8, 2020, locals in Honduras evacuate a flooded area after Hurricane Eta.

Scientists say climate change is to blame. They don’t know if it’s causing more storms. But data seems to show that it’s making storms stronger. 

James P. Kossin works for the NOAA. He says the increase in greenhouse-gas emissions is changing how storms behave. “These storms have a human fingerprint on them,” he told TIME for Kids.
AFTERMATH The heavy rains of Hurricane Eta, in 2020, caused flooding and landslides in Guatemala.

Storm Science

A hurricane begins in the ocean. It draws its energy from ocean air. The planet’s oceans are warming. Warmer water provides a storm with more energy. That means higher winds. It also means heavier rain. (See “Hurricanes 101.”)

Increased energy is causing hurricanes to get stronger faster. In August, Laura changed from a tropical storm to a strong hurricane in about a day. It slammed into Texas and Louisiana. Winds reached 150 miles per hour (mph). Laura’s storm surge—a wall of ocean water mainly caused by wind—reached 17 feet in places.
DAMAGE AND DEBRIS Hurricane Laura toppled power lines in Lake Charles, Louisiana, on August 27, 2020.

Hurricanes are also sticking around longer. So they do more damage. Westerly winds constantly blow around the planet. But they are slowing because of rising temperatures. That causes slow-moving storms. Hurricane Harvey flooded parts of Texas in 2017. “That storm was devastating because it didn’t move,” Kossin says. “It just sat there.”

Protection Plans

Storms don’t affect everyone equally, Dereka Carroll-Smith says. She’s a scientist at the National Institute of Standards and Technology. She analyzes data on communities that are most affected by hurricanes. This helps cities plan ahead.
HARD-HIT In October 2018, workers survey damage caused by Hurricane Michael in Mexico Beach, Florida.
 
Carroll-Smith says areas with a high number of elderly people who can’t easily leave may need one emergency plan. A different plan might be needed where many people live in mobile homes. Recently, evacuations were complicated by the pandemic. Shelters couldn’t hold the usual number of people because of social distancing. 

“Intense storms are going to be devastating to everyone,” Carroll-Smith says, “unless we make preparations now.”

According to Kossin, reducing greenhouse gases is the first step. “We can stop making it worse. Then we can [start] adapting to the new climate we’re in.”
Hurricanes 101
A hurricane is a mass of clouds and thunderstorms. It rotates around an “eye,” or center. Think of a hurricane as a giant engine. Warm, moist air is its fuel. There’s plenty of that in the Atlantic during hurricane season.

Winds must reach 74 mph before a tropical storm is called a hurricane. Then it is rated on a scale of 1 to 5. The rating depends on wind speed. A Category 5 storm churns at 157 mph or more. It can destroy homes. It can make an area unlivable for weeks or even months.

|||||Washington, D.C., is our nation’s capital. It’s where the United States government does most of its work. 
Washington, D.C., is full of important buildings. Politicians and other leaders live and work in these buildings. The city also has many national monuments. They tell the story of our country. 

Look at the map. It shows a few of the most well-known places in D.C. 
1. This is THE WHITE HOUSE. The president and his or her family live here. It’s where the president works.
2. This is the UNITED STATES CAPITOL building. It’s where Congress meets.
3. This is THE WASHINGTON MONUMENT. It’s more than 550 feet tall. It was the tallest structure in the world when it was built in 1884.
4. This is THE LINCOLN MEMORIAL. It’s a monument in honor of President Abraham Lincoln. He was our nation’s 16th president. 
5. This is THE JEFFERSON MEMORIAL. It’s a monument in honor of Thomas Jefferson. He was our nation’s third president.
|||||May is Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) Heritage Month. Here are three recent books with AAPI themes or characters. Which one would you like to read? 
The Last Fallen Star
In The Last Fallen Star, 12-year-old Korean-American Riley Oh wants to become a healing witch like her sister, Hattie. Hattie creates a spell so she can share her magic with Riley—but the spell goes wrong. To fix things, Riley must find the last fallen star.
Riley feels like she doesn’t belong. Author Graci Kim told TIME for Kids that she hopes readers know it’s okay to feel like an outsider. “True acceptance and true belonging start within ourselves,” she says. —By Karena Phan 
Three Keys
Three Keys follows an 11-year-old girl named Mia Tang. She and her family have emigrated from China to the United States, where they own and operate a motel. As immigrants, they’re forced to deal with prejudice. 
Kelly Yang is the author of Three Keys. Her experiences as an Asian American inspired Mia’s character. Yang says representation is important. “Growing up, I never saw an Asian-American girl on the cover of a book,” she told TFK. “It’s really important for kids . . . to see that there isn’t just one American narrative.” —By Ellen Nam
Sugar and Spite
Sugar and Spite, by Gail D. Villanueva, finds 12-year-old Jolina newly arrived on an island in the Philippines. It’s there that she learns how to make magic. Jolina uses that magic to take revenge on a bully named Claudine. But revenge comes at a price. 
Filipino history and culture are woven into the book. Villanueva told TFK that kids should read about places and cultures different from their own, “because doing so helps build empathy.” —By Rebecca Mordechai
|||||In January, one of the world’s major automakers, General Motors (GM), announced that it would stop selling gas-powered cars by 2035. The company says it will make more battery-powered vehicles. In March, Swedish automaker Volvo stepped up the timeline. It said it would go all-electric by 2030.
 
It’s a momentous time for the auto industry. Scientists say moving away from gas-powered vehicles is crucial to fighting climate change. Transportation causes about 25% of global carbon emissions. Three-quarters of that is from road travel. 

Countries are eager to get more electric cars on the road. In China, policy makers say that most new vehicles sold there by 2035 will be electric. The United Kingdom, Ireland, and the Netherlands will ban new gas-powered cars in 2030.

Venkat Viswanathan is a professor of mechanical engineering at Carnegie Mellon University, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He told TIME for Kids, “It is now abundantly clear that electric is the future.”
EARLY MODEL Introduced in the 1990s, GM’s EV1 is the first modern electric car made to be sold in large numbers.

A Cleaner Option
The key to an electric future is batteries. Automakers are racing to pack the most energy into the smallest one. Enter the lithium-ion battery. It’s what powers our mobile devices. It can be recharged again and again.
Making these batteries has an environmental cost. Lithium is taken from the earth, like the oil used to make gasoline. But the long-term cost is much smaller. “Once you burn gasoline, you can’t recycle it,” Jessika Trancik says. She’s a researcher at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in Cambridge. “But when you use up a battery, you can still recycle the material.”
BATTERY PACK A worker handles batteries at a factory in Nanjing, China, on March 12, 2021.

As electric cars recharge, they draw energy from power plants that burn fossil fuels. This also has an environmental cost. But as countries switch to cleaner energy sources, such as wind and solar power, electric vehicles will get cleaner too.

Even now, electric vehicles are the best bet. Trancik says switching to one will reduce the carbon emissions a person generates by at least 30%.
WORK IN PROGRESS An assembly line worker inspects an electric car at a factory in Jinhua, China, on February 18, 2021.

Driving Ahead 

It’s up to governments to make electric cars accessible to everyone. National policies can help. China has invested in electric-car production for years. A no-frills electric vehicle sells there for as little as $5,000. In the United States, a new Chevy Volt costs about $35,000.

Charging stations must also be made widely available. As part of an effort to fight climate change, President Joe Biden plans to build half a million of them in the U.S. by 2030. Trancik hopes this will be done fairly. “It’s important to put chargers where many different people can have access to them,” she says. “Not just wealthier people.”
POWERING UP A driver charges his Chevy Bolt in San Francisco, California, in March 2019.
Last year, almost 5% of approximately 67 million new cars sold worldwide were electric (see “On the Rise”). Sales will likely increase. For Viswanathan, electric cars are just the beginning. He sees a future of solar-powered homes and electric flying cars. “Your entire life will run on batteries,” he says. “It will be a totally new world.” 
On the Rise
Worldwide, the sales of electric vehicles are trending upward. By some estimates, about 50% of new cars sold by 2030 will be electric (see chart).
The popularity of electric cars will rise as prices come down. That’s happening faster than expected. Technology is improving as governments invest in battery development. Soon, a plug-in vehicle might be as cheap as a gas-powered car.
|||||British and Colombian archaeologists have discovered a large display of ancient rock art. It’s on cliff faces in the Colombian Amazon rainforest. The drawings were probably created 12,500 years ago. They provide further proof that the rainforest’s earliest inhabitants lived alongside Ice Age animals. The archaeologists made this discovery in 2019. But they kept it secret until now, ahead of the rock art’s debut in an upcoming documentary. 
|||||On January 20, Joe Biden was sworn in as the 46th president of the United States. Biden took the oath of office at the U.S. Capitol building, in Washington, D.C.  In his inaugural address, he called for unity. “Today, on this January day, my whole soul is in this: bringing America together, uniting our people, uniting our nation,” Biden said. “And I ask every American to join me in this cause.” 
Kamala Harris was sworn in as vice president. She’s the first woman to become vice president of the United States. She’s also the first Black person and the first person of South Asian descent to hold the office.
Donald Trump did not attend Biden’s swearing-in. He was the first outgoing president to skip the new president’s inauguration since Andrew Johnson, in 1869. Former presidents Barack Obama, George W. Bush, and Bill Clinton were there for Biden’s inauguration. So was the outgoing vice president, Mike Pence. 
The day’s events included performances and readings by special guests, including Lady Gaga and Garth Brooks. Amanda Gorman, the first U.S. Youth Poet Laureate, recited a poem she had written.
Typically, many people travel to Washington, D.C., to witness a presidential inauguration. But this one was different. Because of health and safety concerns, only a limited number of people were allowed to attend. 
Read more about the presidential inauguration in the January 29, 2021, issue of TIME for Kids.

|||||A conch shell was discovered 90 years ago in France. It’s now thought to be the oldest instrument of its kind. Researchers say it’s about 18,000 years old. 

The shell was found in a cave in 1931 in France’s Pyrenees region. At first, archaeologists thought it was an ancient cup. It sat in a museum for decades. 
This 18,000-year-old horn was made from a seashell. It can still make sounds.
 
But researchers took a fresh look at the shell. They saw the tip was broken off. You can blow into it. And sound holes had been added. The shell can still play three clear notes. 
A Piece of the Past 
The conch shell is decorated with faded red dots. They match some of the markings found on the cave walls. This shell might have been played during ceremonies. Or it might have been used to summon people for gatherings.  
Rasoul Morteza is a composer in Canada. He has studied the sounds made by shells. “It’s amazing when there’s an object forgotten somewhere,” he says. “And suddenly, it comes again into the light.”  
|||||A series of winter storms began a sweep across the United States on February 11, slowing distribution of the COVID-19 vaccine in many parts of the country. 
Severe weather hit everywhere from Washington State to the southern U.S. Snow and ice closed airports, left roads dangerously slick, and caused millions of people to lose electricity. Record-low temperatures made it dangerous to be outdoors.
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention expected major delays in vaccine shipments. In several states, vaccination appointments were rescheduled. “We want to protect the safety of everyone involved,” Missouri governor Mike Parson said. 
In Washington, officials limited appointments for a first dose of the vaccine and focused on second doses. In Texas, a health center had no power on February 15. Without refrigeration, 8,400 doses were at risk of spoiling. Officials scrambled to ensure that shots were administered. 
The storm was just the latest roadblock to vaccine rollout. Limited supply and other problems have slowed the process. But distribution has improved in recent weeks. Each day, 1.7 million Americans get a vaccination shot, according to the New York Times. 
Stop and Think! What information does the author provide in the lead, or first, paragraph? How does the rest of the article build on that paragraph?
|||||Time flies! The first issue of TIME for Kids was published in September 1995. That means TFK is turning 25. To honor our 25th anniversary, we’re pulling TFK stories from the archives and highlighting them in this space. Each archival issue relates to something in the news today. We hope these stories provide background for the things you’ll read about.
For this week’s science story, TIME for Kids spoke with 9-year-old Kushagra Kumar. He’s taking part in a new program at his school called Learn Kind. It encourages students to explore kindness through the lens of science. Kids evaluate how doing good deeds makes them feel. For Kushagra, acts of kindness bring joy.
TFK has always cared about kindness. In our October 27, 2000, issue, we wrote about schools that were creating antibullying programs and interviewed students who were a part of them. One told TFK that he believed bullies could change. “I teased people all the time when I was in second grade,” he said. “But by third grade, I got my act together. I didn’t like making other people feel bad.”
|||||Kids play different games all around the world. Take a look. 
Batter Up
Cricket is a team sport. The game looks a bit like baseball. But a cricket bat is flat on one side. These kids are playing cricket in India. Both teams are trying to score the most runs. Who will win?  
Jump to the Beat
Kids all over like to jump rope. Some say a rhyme or sing as they do it. This boy is jumping rope in Kenya.
Hopping Around
Look at these girls playing hopscotch. They drew the board with chalk. They’re hopping in Serbia. 
Count on It 
Mancala is a popular counting game. These kids are playing it in Malaysia. It was once played using stones or seeds. That was long ago, in Africa.
|||||Look outside. What do you see? Are there birds in the trees or bugs crawling around? What can you discover about these creatures by watching them? With The Outdoor Scientist, you’ll learn to make scientific observations about the natural world. The book comes with fun facts about plants, animals, and insects, as well as interactive projects that you can do with friends and family.
Temple Grandin is the book’s author. She’s also an inventor and a scientist. “When I was a child, I grew up looking at bugs and leaves,” she told TFK. Grandin encourages readers to explore the world around them. “Kids today need to get outside and just observe nature,” she says. “Observation is an important part of science.”
|||||Halloween is probably going to look different this year. That’s because of the coronavirus pandemic. To help people stay safe, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is offering special guidance.
The CDC says many traditional Halloween activities put people at risk of spreading the virus. Safer options include a virtual costume contest. Indoor activities, such as a movie night or home scavenger hunt, should be limited to members of your household. For outdoor activities, like pumpkin picking and small-group parades, people should stay six feet apart.
The CDC also says costume masks can’t replace regular face masks. If you wear only a costume mask, it should cover your mouth and nose. It should be made of at least two layers of breathable cloth.
|||||
Elephants are huge. They are the largest land animals on Earth. They roam through parts of Africa and Asia. Join TFK on an elephant safari. Let’s learn about these incredible mammals. 

Elephants travel together in large groups called herds. A herd is made up of females and young elephants. The grown-up elephants work together to take care of the young. 


Elephants are known for their long, flexible trunks. A trunk is a helpful thing to have. 
An elephant breathes and smells through its trunk. The trunk also helps the animal drink water and feed itself. This elephant is about 
to munch on grass. Chomp chomp! 
Elephants know how to beat the heat. They suck up water through their trunks. Then they spray themselves with it. Woosh! 

Lots of elephants have tusks. Tusks are gigantic teeth. The animal uses them to dig and for defense. Did you know that an elephant’s tusks never stop growing? 


Some types of elephants are endangered. This means that they are at risk of dying out. That’s because people hunt them.
|||||
We take in new information all the time. We do it with our five senses. These are the senses of sight, taste, touch, hearing, and smell. How do you use your five senses at Thanksgiving? 


Look around! Thanksgiving is full of festive sights. You can see a parade. It has colorful floats.

Thanksgiving is a time for yummy foods. Your tongue has taste buds. They tell the brain how things taste. Tastes include salty, sweet, and sour.
Breaking the turkey’s wishbone is a Thanksgiving tradition. The bone feels smooth. The person who gets the bigger piece is said to have good luck. Snap!
Tune in to the sounds of Thanksgiving. Do you hear the voices of family and friends? Listen closely! What is your favorite holiday sound?

Thanksgiving smells nice! You might smell the turkey cooking. You might smell freshly baked pie. What is your favorite holiday scent

|||||Who should take out the garbage? Who gets to pick what to watch on TV? To make a decision, some people play rock, paper, scissors. “It is a special sport,” Wyatt Baldwin told TFK. He is president of the World Rock Paper Scissors Association.
Children in Malaysia play rock, paper, scissors.
 
Baldwin is skilled at the game. He once had a 43-game winning streak. The secret to his success? “Look for patterns in your opponent’s moves,” Baldwin says. 
Ready to Rock
People have been playing rock, paper, scissors for a long time. The game was probably played in China about 2,000 years ago. Today, people play it all over. In Indonesia, it’s known as semut, orang, gajah. This means “ant, person, elephant.” The Japanese version of the game is called janken. People in Singapore play bird, stone, water. 
Some cultures use different hand symbols. But the idea of the game is the same worldwide. You face off against an opponent. Each player “throws” one of three hand symbols. You win, lose, or tie. (See “Who Wins?”)
Wyatt Baldwin is founder and president of the World Rock Paper Scissors Association.
 
Many people think rock, paper, scissors is all luck. Your chances of winning or losing seem the same. But the game is not completely random. All serious rock, paper, scissors players know this. A 2014 study in China found two key patterns in the way people play. Winners tend to repeat their winning hand symbols. But losers tend to go from rock to paper to scissors. 
So what’s the best way to win a game of rock, paper, scissors? Expert players think about their next move. They also think about what their opponent’s next move might be. “There are lots of different strategies that are always running through my mind,” Baldwin says. 
In order to get good at the game, he recommends practicing. “You can try practicing against yourself in front of a mirror,” Baldwin says. “But for me, that always ended up in a tie.”

|||||Like most people, Mike Lowery has spent a lot of time at home in the past year. To keep boredom at bay, he started dreaming up things to do with his wife and two kids. “Sometimes, it was craft stuff; sometimes, it was activities,” he told TIME for Kids. “Anything we could do at the house to have a good time.”
Now, Lowery has created a book of his favorites: The Ultimate At-Home Activity Guide. He’d like it to entertain kids long after the pandemic. “Hopefully, this period will be wrapping up sooner or later,” he says. “And kids will just be doing these things on a Saturday morning when they don’t feel like going anywhere.” Here, Lowery shares an activity with TFK readers.

|||||Looking for something new to read? TIME for Kids has recommendations. Our editors selected some of the most exciting books of 2020. Then we handed them off to our team of TFK Kid Reporters to review. Here, TFK Kid Reporter Victoria Hanson shares her thoughts on Bug Boys, by Laura Knetzger. For more book reviews, check back next week. 
Bug Boys is a book about Rhino-B and Stag-B, two best friends who happen to be bugs. They remind me of people at my school who have very different personalities but who are still best friends. Bug Boys is a good book for kids who enjoy reading graphic novels about science, friendship, and (you guessed it) bugs. Overall, I enjoyed it. The only part I didn’t like was when the boys got into a fight with other bugs for calling them names. Fighting is not a good way to solve problems.
|||||Imagine you’re out for a walk with your family. A strange dog comes up to you. It nudges you with its snout. It barks at you. 
You’re confused. But there’s something you don’t know: This dog has special training. Maybe its owner has an allergy. And she has eaten something that has made her sick. So the dog runs off to find help. That’s why it came up to you.
But how will the dog tell you what is wrong? It’s not like dogs can talk.
Now imagine the dog is wearing a high-tech vest. The dog tugs at a rope with its teeth. A recording plays. It says, “My owner needs help.” You would understand what the dog is up to. You would know to follow it to its owner and call 911. 
This is the goal of the FIDO project. It is a research project at the Georgia Institute of Technology. 
Schubert demonstrates the bite sensor on a FIDO project vest.

New Tricks 
Dogs can be trained for many tasks. They can help us avoid foods that make us sick. They can let us know when our blood sugar is low.  

“Technology can give dogs so much more power as they help their humans,” Melody Jackson told TIME for Kids. She is FIDO’s director.
FIDO director Melody Jackson poses with her dogs Sky and Schubert.
FIDO researchers designed a vest. It has a tiny computer built in. It can call 911. It can play a recording. To make it work, a dog pulls a rope.
The vests are being tested. Service dogs might be wearing them soon. “This technology could be a huge game changer,” Jackson says.
Best Medicine
Dr. Susan Ryan takes a break with Wynn, a service dog in training.
Wynn is a year-old Labrador. She’s training to be a service dog. Her handler is Susan Ryan. Ryan is a doctor in Colorado. Wynn is often at the hospital with Ryan. When the coronavirus pandemic hit, hospital workers started visiting Wynn. “We get anxious when we think about the future,” Ryan says. “Wynn helps us return to the present.”
|||||Starting a garden might seem daunting. But with a little planning and a few tips, you’ll be growing in no time.
One of the key things to remember is to grow what you love. This way, you’ll be sure to enjoy the process. You can grow vegetables. If you don’t like vegetables, try fruits or flowers. If you’re allergic to flowers, try cacti and other succulents. 
You can grow a garden to feed yourself and your family. You can also help people who don’t have enough nutritious food to eat. That’s an issue I care about deeply. There are many different things you can grow and many different reasons to grow. Find your passion.
Simple Steps
Once you decide what type of garden you’d like to start, you’ll need to plan a few things before getting to work. First, decide where your garden will be. Find a location that gets good sunlight. Maybe you live in an apartment and don’t have a yard. No problem! You can start a garden in containers. You can even grow one in old rain boots. 
   
Next, pick the right soil. This is important for an efficient garden. An expert at a gardening store can advise you on the best soil for your needs. 
Now choose your plants. Will you start with seeds or seedlings? Growing from seeds is often less expensive. And it’s satisfying, because you get to watch the growth from seed to plant. But growing from seedlings, or young plants, is easier. There’s a better chance your plant will grow big enough to produce. 
Get Planting
You’re ready to plant your garden! I suggest planting right before the start of the growing season. Then the plants can adapt to the soil. If you’re a new gardener, start small so you don’t get overwhelmed. Once you know how to plant a garden, you can grow new things season after season. 
 Soon your flowers will bloom or your fruits and vegetables will appear. Share flowers with neighbors to brighten their day, or bring extra veggies to a family who needs them. As I like to say, “Be a good human!”

 
 
|||||December is a festive time of year. The month is full of holidays. Each has its own traditions. Do you celebrate any of these December holidays?
Some people celebrate Hanukkah.
This holiday is known as the Festival of Lights. It lasts eight nights. On each night, a new candle is lit. On the eighth night, all eight candles are lit.
Some celebrate Christmas.
Trees are decorated with ornaments and lights. The tradition of decorating Christmas trees is more than 400 years old.
Some people celebrate Kwanzaa.
This holiday started in the United States. It honors Black traditions. It celebrates family. There are seven nights of Kwanzaa. A new candle is lit each night.
People celebrate the New Year!
People all over the world welcome the New Year. It is celebrated with fireworks and cheers.
Did you know?
December 21 is the shortest day of the year. It is called the winter solstice. People around the world have festivals to celebrate it.
|||||Sound pollution is making oceans noisier than ever. And it’s harming marine life. That’s according to a new article in the journal Science.
Researchers looked at thousands of studies on ocean sound and its effects on wildlife. They found that noise pollution has increased over the years. It’s making life hard for sea creatures. 
Sea animals depend on the ocean’s natural sounds to find their way around. They also use sound to communicate. “For fish, sound is probably a better way to sense their environment than light,” Francis Juanes says. He’s one of the article’s authors. But noise pollution drowns out natural sounds. It comes from activities like shipping, drilling, and construction. As animals flee noisy areas, their habitats shrink.
There are solutions, the study’s authors write. These include wind-powered ships and quieter propellers. And governments could pass laws limiting noise. “We have noise standards for cars and trucks,” says Carlos Duarte, the paper’s lead author. “Why should we not have them for ships?”
Stop and Think! Who are the people quoted in the article? What makes them experts on the subject? How do their statements help you to understand the topic?
|||||Have you noticed solar panels on top of a building? They use the sun’s energy. They turn it into electricity that people can use. Take a look! 
1. Sunlight hits the solar panels. 
2. The panels have tiny particles called electrons. The sun’s rays make the electrons move.
3. This movement creates electricity. The electricity is used in the building.

4. Solar panels create extra electricity. It is sent through power lines. People use it in their homes. 
|||||The best toys of 2020 are a reflection of this year's events. There's Monopoly House Divided, a state-of-the-nation take on the classic board game. There's also Playmobil's Large Hospital play set, which introduces kids to what goes on inside a hospital. Other top toys of the year are an escape. They involve drawing with chocolate, creating bright creatures and training a robotic balloon dog to do tricks. Here, the editors of TIME for Kids round up the best of this year's toys.
Inflate, Fido
Have you been begging your parents for a puppy during the pandemic? Squeakee the Balloon Dog, by Moose Toys, might be the next-best thing. With his squeaker toy, you can train him to do tricks. He sits, stands, and pees. He also responds to touch and voice commands. Pop him with his plastic pin, and he'll deflate to the ground. But have no fear: Squeakee can be reinflated with his plastic pump. He may not be a real dog or even a real balloon dog, but he acts like both.
Playing Politics
With these toys, you'll be playing politics long after the 2020 election. Hasbro's Monopoly House Divided is based on the classic version of the game. Instead of building hotels, you build campaign headquarters and win states. The White House is the ultimate prize. There's also Lego Architecture: The White House. With this building-block set, families can work together to recreate the historic home of the U.S. president. The set comes complete with gardens and a fountain!
Bright Ideas
Creatto Light Up Crafting Kit comes with tiles, connectors, lights and instructions for building a variety of whimsical creatures. With Shimmer Shark & Ocean Pals, you can create a shark, octopus, seagull or fish--or something of your own. Once the pieces are assembled, LED lights can be strung through the puzzle to illuminate the creature, perfect for brightening up a kid's bedroom. Thames & Kosmos offers several Creatto sets, including Magical Moose & Forest Friends and Sparkle Unicorn & Friends. 
Colorful Creations
Ready to flex your creative muscles? Try these sunny open-ended play sets. Lego Classic Bricks Bricks Plates includes more than 1,500 Lego pieces in a variety of colors and shapes. It comes with four square bases that hold bricks at any angle--even upside down. If you're looking for something squishy, Horizon Group USA's Rainbow Mixy Squish Deluxe Pack features air-dry clay in 12 bright colors. It also comes with fun mixers, such as confetti and foam balls. Leave the clay out for 24 to 48 hours to dry, and your creation will turn into a soft sculpture. 
A Handy Robot
Need an extra hand? Try a robotic one that can help with everyday tasks. Mega Cyborg Hand, by Thames & Kosmos, comes with more than 200 pieces. A step-by-step manual shows you how to build it. And along the way, you'll learn about designing things that move by air and water. The toy simulates the movements of a human hand, with no electricity required. Once assembled, it slips on like a glove. 
Back to the Classics
This year marks the 60th anniversary of Etch a Sketch, and next year is the 50th anniversary of Uno. Celebrate these milestones with new twists on these timeless classics. Spin Master's Etch a Sketch Revolution is built for sketching perfect circles. Mattel's Uno Showdown makes quick reflexes a necessity of the popular matching card game. Playing a Showdown wild card means challenging another player to a face-off. The first person to push the paddle wins the round. 
Wooden Wonders
These low-tech kits combine the fundamentals of STEM and the arts. The Smartivity Music Machine is a do-it-yourself creativity kit. It lets you build a self-playing xylophone machine without glue or tools. Once the instrument is put together, you can crank out your own songs. The Smartivity Kaleidoscope is another wooden construction kit. This one focuses on patterns and colors. When the kaleidoscope is completed, it can be filled with beads or other small items from around the house. 
The Force Awakens
Many would agree that the real star of The Mandalorian is actually the Child. The creature is also known as Baby Yoda because it looks like the classic Star Wars character. Now, the creature can waddle its way into your home. Hasbro's Star Wars: The Child Animatronic Edition toy is cuddly. It blinks and makes adorable sounds. Mattel's The Child: Real Moves Plush has a remote control and can move across the floor. For kids who like to build things, Lego Star Wars: The Child might be the best choice. Sit down with the family and assemble the cutest kid in the galaxy. 
Challenge Accepted
Family game night just got a lot more active. Hands Full, by WowWee, is best described as Twister-meets--Bop It. It consists of tying yourself up in knots and responding to commands. Grab, jump, high-five, twist, and more. But don't mess up or the game is over! Vango's The #UpsideDownChallenge Game will turn your world upside down--literally. Sure, you know how to high-five a friend, draw a tree, and pour water from one cup to another. But what happens when you try to complete these tasks wearing upside-down goggles? 
Children's Hospital
Playmobil's Large Hospital brings the medical world to life. It's two stories high  and has rolling hospital beds, an elevator, and an operating room. It also comes with mini medical devices, including a stethoscope and reflex hammer. And the waiting room is complete with magazines. Large Hospital is a great toy for learning about healthcare professions--particularly during these times. Are you worried about visiting a hospital or the doctor? This kit may help! 
Eats and Crafts
Enter the world of delicious and imaginative crafting. With Chocolate Pen, by Skyrocket, you can write tasty messages. You can also melt chocolate into molds to create rainbows, animals, and more. With Super Duper Bubble Gum Lab, by Thames & Kosmos, create your own chewing gum in watermelon, orange, and classic bubblegum flavors. The gum is tasty! But it can also be used in a variety of science experiments. They're included in the kit's instructional manual.
Launch Time
Ready to race to the finish line? PlayMonster's Drone Home is the first-ever kids' game that has a real flying drone. Players launch aliens in the drone to help them escape. The first player to send home all of his or her aliens wins. Power Treads, by WowWee, is a speedy toy vehicle. It moves on nearly all surfaces, and it's perfect for indoors. It comes with a track set that can take the vehicle practically anywhere you want it to go.
|||||Scientists have discovered what may be the smallest reptile on Earth. The species is called Brookesia nana, or nano-chameleon. It lives in the rainforest in northern Madagascar. The finding was published in the journal Scientific Reports.
Researchers found two of the tiny chameleons, male and female. Nose to tail, the male is less than an inch long and fits on a fingertip. The female is larger, at just over an inch long.
Like many rainforest species, chameleons are threatened by deforestation. But there is good news. Oliver Hawlitschek is a biologist at the Center of Natural History in Hamburg, Germany. He says the chameleon’s habitat has been placed under protection recently. “The species will survive,” he says.
|||||Forests are made of trees. Let's look at three types of forests.
Temperate Forest
Temperate forests are found all over the world. These forests have four seasons. They are hot or cool at different times of the year. Animals adapt to the changing weather. 
Many types of trees grow in a temperate forest. Their leaves change color with the seasons. Leaves fall off the trees when the weather gets cool. As the weather warms up, the trees grow new leaves. 
Boreal Forest 
Boreal forests are found in northern parts of the world. These forests are cold. Spruce and pine trees grow in boreal forests. They have leaves shaped like needles. 
The largest boreal forest is in Russia. It is called a taiga. It is home to many animals. Moose, wolves, and caribou live in boreal forests. The animals have adapted to the cold climate by growing thick fur.
Tropical Rain Forest

You may have guessed that it rains a lot in a rain forest. You are right! Tropical rain forests are hot and damp. They are home to more types of plants and animals than any other habitat. 
The biggest rain forest is the Amazon. It is in South America. There, you’ll find monkeys, frogs, toucans, jaguars, and other animals.
Trees give us oxygen. They help clean the air. Chopping down too many trees hurts the environment. 
|||||Cities and towns need water. People use it for drinking, bathing, and growing crops. An AQUEDUCT carries water from one place to another. Engineers have been building these structures for thousands of years. 
Aqueducts were found long ago in places such as Egypt, Greece, and Italy. Some ancient aqueducts are still standing today. Some of them still work! Aqueducts have changed over the years. But they still serve the same purpose. Read on to see an ancient aqueduct and a modern one.
This aqueduct is more than 2,000 years old. It was built by ancient Romans. It’s still standing in Italy. It was part of a network of aqueducts. They carried water through valleys. Building them took careful planning. 
This is a modern aqueduct. It draws water from a lake in California. It carries the water to cities and towns. Engineers can use powerful pumps to move the water along. Whoosh! 
|||||Feeling blue? There are things you can do to feel happier. Try these tips to cheer yourself up. You can do these things every day. They will help you feel better. And that feeling might last longer than you expect. 
Take deep belly breaths. Focus on your breathing.
Do something kind for others. Helping someone else will make you feel good. That is because you will forget about yourself for a moment. You will also be making a small change in the world.
Talk with a friend. Other people help us feel safe. Togetherness makes us happier.
Express gratitude. What are you thankful for? Make a list. Who are the special people in your life? Let them know how special they are.
Exercise, eat well, and get enough sleep. You have to take care of your body to feel good.
|||||Jon Klassen writes books for kids. He also makes pictures for the books. TIME for Kids asked him some questions about his work.
Did you always like to write and draw?
 
In the second grade, I started writing stories. And I drew pictures to go with them. I don’t like making pictures if there is not a story to go with them.  
What is your process for creating a new book?
 
I start with a problem. That setup gives birth to characters. The characters have to feel natural. If they don’t, the book won’t work, even if it is funny.
How do you make pictures?

I do tests. I may paint 12 rocks. I will circle my favorite four. Then I scan them. On my computer, I will add them to my other illustrations. This is a drawing of a snake. 
You have worked on many books. How do you know when a story is done?
 
I tinker with it until it feels like it has ended. I try to change the idea of what an ending feels like.
What is your favorite part of writing books for kids?

Kids are careful readers. They focus hard on what they read. I can count on kids to pick up on details in my books. It is an honor. 
|||||Kids have long fought for justice in the United States. Look back to May 1963. Hundreds of Black children skipped school to march in Birmingham, Alabama. They were protesting segregation. Segregation is the practice of keeping Black and white people apart.
Freeman Hrabowski speaks about Black history in 2010.
Freeman Hrabowski is a president at the University of Maryland. He was 12 in 1963. He remembers Martin Luther King Jr. visiting his church. King asked kids to fight for civil rights. Hrabowski was inspired to march. “King believed in us,” he told TIME for Kids. “We have to believe in our kids. They have to be empowered to play a part in our democracy.”
|||||African elephants are becoming more endangered. That’s according to a March 25 report. It was done by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The group decides how likely some animals are to become extinct. 
There are two species of African elephant. One is the savanna elephant. Its population has fallen by 60% over the past 50 years.  The other is the forest elephant. Its population has fallen by 86% in the past 31 years. 

These animals are now endangered. Poaching and habitat loss are the two main threats to them. Bruno Oberle is the director of IUCN. He says Africa’s elephants are “iconic animals” that should be protected.
|||||Some of your trash can be used to help the planet. With composting, you can recycle food and other organic materials. It can be turned into fertilizer to help plants grow. Composting is good for the planet. It reduces the amount of waste we make. With composting, less waste ends up in landfills. 
To compost, you will first need a compost bin. Add soil to it. Then add leaves and twigs. Next, add some water. Now old scraps of food can be mixed in. Fruits and vegetables can be composted. So can old tea bags, eggshells, coffee grounds, and more.

The soil contains tiny creatures. They feed on the scraps you compost. They break them down. This makes the soil rich with nutrients. 
The chart below shows items that can and cannot be composted. Try composting at home or school. Then use your nutrient-rich soil to plant a garden. 
|||||
Fall is a season of change. As the weather gets colder, acorns, apples, pumpkins, and leaves change color. Take a look.
Acorns turn brown.
Chipmunks gather and eat acorns. They store them for the winter.
Apples turn red. 
Apples ripen in the fall. Ripe apples can also be green, pink, or yellow.
Pumpkins turn orange.
Pumpkins grow on vines. They turn orange when they are ripe.
Leaves turn yellow. 
Tree leaves change color in the fall. They can turn yellow, orange, red, or brown.
|||||North Duke Street in downtown Lancaster, Pennsylvania, smells like dessert. The scent comes from a small, locally owned business that sells ice cream, homemade chocolates, and stroopies—thin, cinnamon waffle-sandwich cookies with a caramel center.
The treats are popular in Europe, where they’re known as stroopwafels. Workers at the North Duke Street shop bake about 10,000 stroopies a week. Co-owner Jennie Groff is proud of her product. But “the thing that I’m most excited about,” she told TIME for Kids, “is that we provide meaningful employment to refugee women who call Lancaster their new home.” 
FAMILY BUSINESS Jonathan and Jennie Groff pose outside their sweet shop with their four kids.
Founded in 2008, the Lancaster Stroopie Company has two main goals. One is to make delicious cookies. The other is to make a difference in the lives of refugee women and their families as they make a fresh start in the United States. “It can be kind of lonely when you’re in a new place,” Groff says. “And even though the women are from all different parts of the world, there’s just this community that’s developed at work, which is really, really beautiful.”
Coming to America
Refugees are people who have been forced to flee their country. This could be due to war or fear of persecution because of their race, religion, or nationality. It could also be because of their political opinions or membership in certain social groups. There are about 26 million refugees worldwide. About half are under the age of 18. 
Anne-Marie Gray is executive director of the group USA for UNHCR. Her organization supports the United Nations refugee agency. “These are people that don’t choose to flee,” she says of refugees. “They have to flee, often for their lives or for their safety.” 
YUM! A stroopwafel is a cookie with a gooey caramel center. Here, a worker prepares the sweet treat.
Currently, the government allows up to 15,000  refugees per year to resettle and work in the U.S. President Joe Biden says he’d like to increase that number to 62,500 for this year. Each application for entry into the U.S. is reviewed by the government. The screening process can last two years. If approved, a refugee might settle in Lancaster.
Danene Sorace is the city’s mayor (see “A Welcoming City”). “The culture shock of this transition” can be tough, she says. “What [Groff] is doing is providing a runway for families to be able to be successful and thrive.”
New Friends and Neighbors 
Mary Myint is from Myanmar, a country in Asia. She felt unsafe there as a Christian. In 2013, she and her family resettled in Lancaster. “I love Lancaster,” she says. But there were challenges: “The hardest part was that I couldn’t speak English.” She also needed a job. Soon, Myint was hired by the Lancaster Stroopie Company. It hosts English classes for employees. In January 2021, Myint became a U.S. citizen. 
LUNCHTIME Jennie Groff (left) and Mary Myint (center) share a meal with fellow employees in 2019.
Groff admires Myint and other resettled refugees. Today, Groff employs nine women from four countries: the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Myanmar, Nepal, and Syria. “I’ve learned so much from them,” she says. “It’s just so fun to see that as they come and bring their gifts and talents, our lives are enriched.”
A Welcoming City
Amish vendors sell produce in Lancaster in 2020.
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, has long been a welcoming place. “It’s part of [our] DNA,” Jennie Groff says. In the 18th century, Amish and Mennonite people settled in the area to freely practice their religion. They’re still an important part of the community. In recent years, the city of Lancaster has welcomed a diverse group of legal immigrants and refugees. “We care about their success,” mayor Danene Sorace says. “Their success is our success.”

|||||Students in Chicago Public Schools have created their own superheroes. These characters come to life in a new computer game called SuperMe. To make the game, students first had to learn how to code. Then they used coding to animate the characters. Chance the Rapper used SuperMe as the music video for “I Love You So Much,” his song with DJ Khaled. 
Ian Fethiere, 11, was one of the kid coders. He’s having fun with his new skills. “I like making games where you can jump over objects,” he told TIME for Kids. 
|||||Wyatt Baldwin has been playing rock, paper, scissors since he was a kid. The game helped him settle disagreements with his three older sisters. "I never got the chance to pick what we watched on TV until I learned the sport of rock, paper, scissors," he told TIME for Kids. 
Baldwin is president of the World Rock Paper Scissors Association. He's played in and hosted competitions all around the globe. He once had a 43-game winning streak. The secret to his success? "Look for patterns in either your opponent's moves or behavior," he says. As all serious rock, paper, scissors players know, there's more to the game than luck. 
Ready to Rock
People have been playing rock, paper, scissors for about 2,000 years. It's played everywhere. Some cultures use different hand symbols. But the idea is the same. You and an opponent each "throw" one of three hand symbols. You win, lose, or tie (see "Who Wins?"). 
Many people think the game is all luck. Your probability of winning seems about the same as your chances of losing. But the outcome of the game is not random. That's because human behavior isn't random. There are patterns in how people make decisions. 
A 2014 study at Zhejiang University, in China, looked at how people play rock, paper, scissors. It followed 360 students in a tournament. Researchers found two key patterns. Winners tended to repeat their winning hand symbols. Losers tended to go from rock to paper to scissors. 
Knowing the psychology of the game isn't a sure ticket to winning. But it can help. Ken "Whitey" Watson is one of the world's best rock, paper, scissors players. He says winning takes skill. "You have to size up your opponent." Luck and chance play a part, but "you have to be prepared and have a strategy," he says. "Part of my strategy is being confident." 
According to Baldwin, "practice, practice, practice" is the key to success. "You can try practicing against yourself in front of a mirror," he says. "But for me, that always ended up in a tie." 
|||||A tortilla is a type of flatbread. Tortillas are an important part of Mexican food. Check out how a corn tortilla is made. 
Start with corn flour and water. Corn flour is ground corn. 
Make dough. Mix the corn flour with water. Roll the dough into small balls. 
 
Roll out the dough. Form a thin, flat circle. This can be done with a rolling pin or a tortilla press. 
 
Cook the tortillas. You can do this on a hot griddle. The tortillas are finished when they look dry and toasted. Enjoy!
|||||One morning in June 2020, hundreds of people gathered in Saint Paul, Minnesota. They started marching down a tree-lined street. They carried signs: “No Justice? No Peace” and “Love, Respect, Equality.”
Families join a kids' march in Saint Paul, Minnesota, on June 6, 2020. They are peacefully protesting racism.
There were numerous marches in Saint Paul in the spring of 2020. People were protesting racism. They wanted Black people to be treated fairly. But this protest was different. Most of the people marching were kids.
“Children have a lot to say if they are given a chance,” Maggie Barnes told TIME for Kids. Barnes runs a day-care center in Saint Paul. She organized the march. “Kids have a right to be heard.”
Standing Up 
Marching is a way for kids to share their thoughts and feelings, Barnes says. It is a way of showing they want to change the world. 
Maggie Barnes leads the June march in Saint Paul.
Aidan Carter, 10, agrees. He led a kids' march in Portland, Oregon. This year, there have been protests there, too. Hundreds of marchers joined Aidan. “I felt like one of the big people,” he says. “Even though you’re little, you can still be brave and stand up for rights.”
Aidan Carter, 10, leads a kids' march against racism in Portland, Oregon, on June 17, 2020.
Standing up for the rights of others can make you feel good, Barnes says. At the end of the march in Saint Paul, a boy named Malachai ran up to her. “I love you,” he said. “I want a hug.”
Barnes was wearing a mask. It was for protection against the new coronavirus. She bent down to hug the boy. “I could not deny him,” she says. 
Signs of Hope
At marches, protesters often carry signs. A sign is a way of expressing feelings, ideas, or beliefs. It shows what the protester wants to achieve by marching. 
Usually, signs are homemade. They may use words and pictures. There have been many colorful signs at kids’ marches.

EDITOR’S NOTE: A previous version of this story contained a photo that included inappropriate language. The photo has been removed.

|||||
Caves are dark and hollow. They can form underground, on hillsides, or in the walls of cliffs. Some caves were carved out by water. Others were formed by lava that cooled and hardened. 
Stalactites and stalagmites are sometimes found in caves. They are built up from the minerals in dripping water. 
A person who explores and studies caves is called a spelunker. There is a lot to discover in this unique habitat! 

|||||A symbol is something that has a special meaning. One United States symbol is the flag. To Americans, the flag stands for freedom. Here are some other U.S. symbols. They remind us of the hopes our country is based on. 
 
Standing Tall 
 
The Statue of Liberty stands tall in New York Harbor. Lady Liberty was a gift to the U.S. from France. She represents freedom.  
 
Let Freedom Ring
 
The Liberty Bell is in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It used to ring for big events. It is another symbol for freedom.
A Patriotic Bird
 
The bald eagle is the country’s national bird. It stands for bravery and strength. 
Our Nation’s Flower
The rose is the national flower of the United States.   It is a symbol of life, love, and beauty. Look at this rose garden in Washington, D.C. What color roses do you see?
 
 
Did You Know?
 
This is the Seal of the President of the United States. It is made up of symbols. The stripes on the shield stand for the first 13 states. What else do you see?
|||||Click. Click click. Click. Steve Forrest is in Antarctica. He’s standing on a rocky cliff. Below him are hundreds of chinstrap penguins. 
Forrest is a biologist. He uses a metal clicker to count every penguin he sees. It’s not easy. It’s snowing. The wind is howling. And the fluffy chicks won’t stay still!
Chinstrap penguins are named for the black band that runs around their throat. Can you see it?
Forrest is part of a team working on a penguin census. The census will help scientists better understand the Antarctic environment. 
Over the years, the number of chinstrap penguins in Antarctica has gone down. “Our best guess on why that could be is climate change,” Noah Strycker says. He’s on the census team. 
Scientists say climate change is making the ocean warmer. This may be hurting krill. Chinstraps eat these tiny shrimplike creatures. But krill are hard to study. So scientists focus on penguins. If penguins aren’t doing well, it probably means krill aren’t either. “Penguins give us an idea about what is going on in the ocean around us,” Forrest says. 


Drone Solution
This year, robotics engineers are helping Forrest with the penguin census. They fly a drone over the penguins. The drone takes pictures. Forrest’s team will use the photos as a record of each colony’s location and size. It will also use the photos to teach computers to spot penguin nests. That way, computers could one day use satellite cameras to count penguins. For now, Forrest and his team will keep on clicking.
|||||Bananas are an important fruit. Millions of people depend on them for food and money. But bananas are in trouble. They are being attacked by a disease called Tropical Race 4 (TR4).

TR4 is a fungus. It lives in the soil. When TR4 strikes, a banana plant turns yellow, dries up, and dies.
A banana plant is infected by Tropical Race 4. When this happens, the plant turns yellow, wilts, and dies.
TR4 is showing up on banana farms around the world. It is killing banana plants in Asia, Africa, Australia, South America, and the Middle East. “[TR4] can easily spread,” Fazil Dusunceli told TIME for Kids. He works for the Food and Agriculture Organization. “It is very problematic.” 

People are coming together to save the tropical fruit. Some scientists are even working to create new banana plants in a lab. These plants would not be harmed by TR4. 
A farmer in Costa Rica tends to bunches of healthy bananas.
But not everyone is worried. Andrew Biles works for Chiquita. That is one of the biggest banana companies in the world. “I think there’s a great future for bananas,” he says.
|||||Jeremi Swietochowski is in fourth grade. One day, he was playing with Legos when he heard a thump. A bird had hit his window. Jeremi went to check on the bird. “Just as I was about to open the door, it flew away,” he told TIME for Kids. 
Not all birds are so lucky. Up to a billion are killed each year in the United States after flying into glass. 
A pattern on the glass face of New York’s Javits Center helps prevent bird collisions.
“When birds see a reflection of habitat—to them, that’s just more habitat they can fly into,” Christine Sheppard says. She leads the glass-collisions program at the American Bird Conservancy. She and others want to make buildings bird-friendly. 
Bird-friendly design keeps hummingbirds and other feathered friends safe.
By Design 
Birds are confused by habitat reflected in glass. They think they can fly through it.
 
There are three main ways to make a building more bird-friendly. One is to use less glass. Another is to wrap a building in a screen.
A third technique is to use special glass. This was done on the Javits Center. It’s a huge glass building in New York City. In 2009, the city decided to replace some of the glass. Metal panels were used. So were opaque and patterned glass.
The Orange Cube, in France, is bird-friendly. A screen keeps birds safe. But it doesn’t block the light.
Daniel Piselli is an architect. He worked on the project. He says that with glass, “the main thing is to put something on it that birds can see, so they’re not fooled by reflections.” Work was completed in 2014. Bird collisions went down by 90%.
Jeremi is also doing his part to stop collisions. He got permission to draw a grid on his window (see “Take Action”). It’s “visible for birds,” his mom says. “But it’s hardly noticeable for people.”
Take Action
You can make your home safer for birds. “Solutions can be applied on the outside of windows,” says Connie Sanchez of the National Audubon Society. Here are a few of them.
SCREENS They reduce reflection. 
MASKING TAPE Place strips two to four inches apart. 
ARTWORK Use tempera paint. Get creative!
|||||TIME created a list of the 100 best fantasy books ever. TIME for Kids editors chose 10 favorites for kids. Read about them here. They're listed in order of publication, beginning in 1865.
Alice's Adventures in Wonderland
More than 150 years after its publication, Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll, is still one of the most celebrated works in the history of literature. The book is about a curious girl who falls down a rabbit hole into a world of talking animals. It began as a series of stories that Carroll told to a friend’s three young daughters. When it was published, it changed children’s literature. Carroll introduced a playful, nonsensical style. It influenced writers for years to come. The book has inspired everything from operas to amusement-park rides to video games. —By Judy Berman
Five Children and It
Five brothers and sisters move into a summer home in the English countryside. They go digging in the nearby gravel-pits and make a curious discovery. At the bottom of a hole, they find a strange furry creature. They learn it’s a Psammead, or Sand-fairy. The Psammead has magical powers: It can grant each child one wish per day. But the wishes have unintended consequences. Five Children and It, by E. Nesbit, was published in 1902. It has never been out of print. —By Annabel Gutterman
Mary Poppins
P.L. Travers’s classic story contains one of the most fascinating main characters in the history of children’s literature: the peculiar and magical nanny Mary Poppins. The book follows Poppins after the east wind blows her to the home of the Banks family, on Cherry Tree Lane. The story has so much heart, it has inspired movies and music for generations. —By Annabel Gutterman
The Phantom Tollbooth
The Phantom Tollbooth is about a bored boy named Milo. One day, he drives his toy car through a tollbooth that’s mysteriously appeared in his bedroom. He’s transported to the Kingdom of Wisdom. This curious land is divided by a feud over whether numbers or letters are more important. Milo makes two friends there. Tock is a watchdog—literally. The Humbug is a giant insect who loves to brag. They journey to the Castle in the Air. Along the way, Milo discovers the true joy of learning. Author Norton Juster called the book an “accidental masterpiece.” It was inspired by his own childhood boredom. —By Megan McCluskey
Tuck Everlasting
Natalie Babbitt’s story follows young Winnie Foster as she comes to know the Tuck family. After drinking from an enchanted spring on the Foster's property, the Tucks have been granted immortality and will live forever. Winnie must keep their secret as outsiders try to profit from the powerful spring water. Along the way, she learns something important: The fact that life comes to an end gives meaning to all that comes before. —By Eliza Berman
The BFG
In The BFG, by Roald Dahl, the young and kind triumph over darkness and hardship no matter the odds. An orphan named Sophie is snatched from her bed in the dead of night by a mysterious 24-foot-tall being. He refers to himself as the BFG, or Big Friendly Giant. The pair form an unlikely friendship. But when Sophie learns that the BFG is the only vegetarian among his child-eating companions, she determines to put a stop to their murderous ways. —By Megan McCluskey
Haroun and the Sea of Stories
Haroun and the Sea of Stories follows a 12-year-old boy who lives in an ancient city “so ruinously sad that it had forgotten its name.” He goes on a mission to restore his father’s lost gift for storytelling. Author Salman Rushdie’s beautiful descriptions, playful language, colorful characters, and sense of humor make it a timeless adventure story. —By Judy Berman
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban is the third of the seven Harry Potter books. It’s widely thought to be the best book in the series. In the novel, Harry and friends deal with soul-sucking Dementors, time travel and the prison escape of mass-murderer Sirius Black. They also begin to look outside the halls of the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. As they do, they start to understand the larger battle against injustice that is brewing in their world. —By Megan McCluskey
Where the Mountain Meets the Moon
Young Minli lives with her poor parents in the valley of Fruitless Mountain. She loves to listen to her father share folktales about the Jade Dragon and the Old Man of the Moon. Determined to change her family’s fate, Minli sets off on an adventure to meet the Old Man of the Moon. Along the way, she’s introduced to magical creatures and befriends a dragon who can’t fly. Minli’s exploration is depicted with joy and pockets of sadness. In the story, author Grace Lin celebrates Chinese folklore and fairy tales. —By Annabel Gutterman
Aru Shah and the End of Time
To fit in at school, 12-year-old Aru Shah bends the truth. A lot. Aru’s mom works at the Museum of Ancient Indian Art and Culture. It’s there that Aru’s lies finally catch up to her. She tells her classmates there’s a curse on the museum’s Lamp of Bharata. To prove it, she lights the lamp—and accidentally awakens an ancient demon. To make things right, Aru must find the Pandava brothers. They are characters from an epic Hindu poem. They’ve died and been reborn in a new form. In Aru Shah and the End of Time, author Roshani Chokshi weaves Hindu myths and snappy writing into an exciting adventure. —By Annabel Gutterman
|||||Scientists have discovered what may be the smallest reptile on Earth. The species is called Brookesia nana. It’s also known as a nano-chameleon. It lives in the rainforest in northern Madagascar. The finding was published in the journal Scientific Reports. 

Researchers found two of the tiny chameleons. The male is less than an inch long. It fits on a fingertip. The female is a bit larger. Chameleons are in trouble because of deforestation. But Oliver Hawlitschek says the chameleon’s habitat has been recently placed under protection. He’s a biologist at the Center of Natural History. That’s in Hamburg, Germany. “The species will survive,” he says.
|||||What will Earth look like in 30 years? We asked kids to draw an answer to that question. Here are a few of their drawings. What do you see? 
We also got letters from kids who are doing things to help the planet. Great job! Soon, your generation will be in charge. You give us hope for that future.
Aanya C., 6, Kowloon Tong, Hong Kong
Alexandra A., 9, Miami, Florida
Kellie K., 8, Brooklyn, New York

|||||TFK Kid Reporter Sophia Hou spoke with Cynthia Leitich Smith, editor of the new book Ancestor Approved: Intertribal Stories for Kids. Here’s part of their conversation. 
1. Tell me about the book.
Ancestor Approved is a collection of short stories and poetry. It’s set at an intertribal powwow in Michigan, and it features art and writing by a Native American illustrator and authors. 
2. How would you describe a powwow? 
Powwows are cultural celebrations, and they’re a lot about community—about people coming together. Powwows honor ancestors, elders, families, and rising young heroes who will take us into the future.
3. What inspired you to put together this collection of stories and poems?
I’m a member of the Muscogee Nation. When I was a young reader, there weren’t many books that featured Native heroes and modern-day stories. So I was hopeful that a book like this would increase the availability of books about those subjects for kids who are interested. 
4. How can your anthology help readers understand Native American culture?
I think it gives Native Americans a look at people like them from tribes that are not like their own. So if you are, for example, an Ojibwe reader, you might learn something about the Cherokee. 
If you’re not Native, I think it offers a window into real-life three-dimensional kids from lots of different tribes and some of their cultural practices. But it also shows some of the ways in which they’re just like you.
5. What do you want readers to take away from the book? 
I want them to celebrate heritage, elders, the power of friendship and family, and the importance of connecting with other people and lifting them up in a positive way. And I want the readers to lift themselves up in a positive way, too.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
|||||What will Earth look like in 30 years? We asked kids to draw an answer to that question. Here are a few of their drawings. What do you see? 
Aanya C., 6, Kowloon Tong, Hong Kong
Alexandra A., 9, Miami, Florida
Kellie K., 8, Brooklyn, New York

|||||Not many women race cars. But racer Danica Patrick loves zooming around the track. Join TFK on a ride through her career. 
Born to Race
Patrick started racing cars at age 10. At first, she drove a tiny car. It is called a go-kart. Vroom! 
Full Speed Ahead
Later, Patrick raced larger, faster cars. In 2005, she drove in the Indianapolis 500. It is a famous race. She was the fourth woman ever to drive in it. 
A Fan Favorite 
Patrick inspires women and girls all over the world. She has advice for young fans. “Just be who you are,” she told TFK. “And do things that bring you joy.”
Making History
Patrick retired from race-car driving in 2018. But she will be part of racing history. She continues to inspire people today. 
Did You Know?
Meet Janet Guthrie. She was first woman to compete in the Indianapolis 500. Guthrie drove in the race three times. The first time was in 1977. 
|||||Tomorrow is Inauguration Day. Joe Biden will be sworn in as the 46th president of the United States. This year, many of the inaugural activities are taking place online. One of them is a special livestream for students and families called Our White House. “We want to ensure that we are engaging folks of all ages,” Tony Allen said in a statement. He’s the head of the Biden Inaugural Committee. 
Many of our TFK Kid Reporters will be watching tomorrow’s events, and all Americans will be paying close attention to what President Biden does during his first 100 days. The first 100 days of a new president's term are especially important. People start to learn what kind of leader he or she will be. They watch to see which issues and projects get priority. We asked TFK Kid Reporters, “If you were elected president, what would you do in your first 100 days in office?” Here’s what they had to say.
The first thing I would do would be to control the coronavirus pandemic. I would help the vaccine get to more people all over the United States. —Miguel Madero, 10, San Antonio, Texas
One of my top priorities would be the environment. I would bring scientific experts together to collaborate and find ways to slow climate change. And I would advocate for and give money to reforestation programs. —Abby Rogers, 11, Lahaina, Hawaii
I’d try to stop climate change by reducing pollution. I would limit the amount of single-use plastic being manufactured and used. I would also clean up the world’s oceans. —Sophia Hou, 11, Short Hills, New Jersey
I would go on national listening tours to meet with millions of Americans. I’d show them that I value their opinions, I understand their feelings, and I want to work with them to make America a better place. —Jeremy Liew, 12, Riverside, Connecticut
Good relationships with other countries are essential. I would meet with top world leaders and establish friendships. (And I’d paint the White House rose gold, my favorite color!) —Rory Hu, 10, Cupertino, California
The first thing I’d do is make a holiday honoring one of my heroes, Harriet Tubman. She risked her own life and safety to free people from slavery. —Victoria Hanson, 11, Chadds Ford Township, Pennsylvania
I know that student loans are a big worry for college graduates. I’d pardon student loans up to $10,000. —Pranav Mukhi, 10, South Setauket, New York
Correction: A previous version of this story incorrectly noted Jeremy Liew's hometown. He is from Riverside, not Riverdale.
|||||On January 20, Joe Biden was sworn in as the 46th president of the United States. Biden won the presidential election in November, defeating Donald Trump.
Biden took the oath of office at the U.S. Capitol, in Washington, D.C. He was sworn in by the chief justice of the Supreme Court, John Roberts. Biden pledged to “preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution.” 
In his inaugural address, President Biden called for unity. “On this January day, my whole soul is in this: bringing America together, uniting our people, and uniting our nation,” he said. Near the end of his speech, Biden held a moment of silence for the 400,000 Americans who have died from COVID-19. 
Kamala Harris was sworn in as U.S. vice president. She’s the first woman to hold this position. She’s also the first Black person and the first person of South Asian descent to do so. Harris was sworn in by Supreme Court justice Sonia Sotomayor. 
Making History
Inauguration Day 2021 was unique in several ways. Typically, many people travel to Washington, D.C., to witness a presidential inauguration. But because of the coronavirus pandemic, only a limited number of people were allowed to attend this one. Instead of a crowd, nearly 200,000 flags were planted on the National Mall. They stood for people who were unable to be there. 
Security was tight. About 25,000 members of the National Guard were on hand. Two weeks earlier, on January 6, a large group of Trump’s supporters violently stormed the Capitol. They were trying to stop the U.S. Congress from confirming Biden’s victory. 
Trump did not attend the Biden-Harris inauguration. He was the first outgoing president to skip an inauguration since Andrew Johnson, in 1869. Former presidents Barack Obama, George W. Bush, and Bill Clinton were there. So was outgoing vice president Mike Pence. 
The ceremony featured the first National Youth Poet Laureate, Amanda Gorman. At 22, she is the youngest inaugural poet. Her poem captured the day’s theme. “There is always light, if only we’re brave enough to see it, if only we’re brave enough to be it,” she read. 
Day 1
After the inauguration, Biden and Harris quickly got to work. Harris gave the oath of office to three new senators. They are Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff, of Georgia, and Alex Padilla, who replaces Harris as a California senator. 
At the White House, Biden signed 17 executive actions. One was a plan for distributing COVID-19 vaccines. Others, focusing on immigration and climate change, reverse orders made by Trump. “I’m going to start by keeping the promises I made to the American people,” Biden told reporters. 
Festivities continued in the evening. Harris gave a speech from the Lincoln Memorial. Echoing Biden’s message, she called on Americans to “believe in ourselves, believe in our country, believe in what we can do together.” Later, a fireworks display lit up the sky.
Stop and Think! What facts from the article stand out to you? What do they tell us about the inauguration? How do the quotes in the article help you understand the inauguration’s theme?
|||||Eyes are like cameras. They see the world around us. They send images to the brain. Take a closer look to learn about our incredible eyes.
Colorful Eyes
Look in a mirror. What color are your eyes? Eyes can be shades of blue, green, hazel, or brown.
Great to See You
We can’t see without light. It bounces off objects and into our eyes. Even in the dark, there is light. Your eyes may need time to adjust.
Glasses Can Help!
Some eyes need a boost. They may not be able to see far away or up close. Glasses can sharpen your sight.
Blink It Away
If you get a bit of dust in your eyes, blinking can help. Your eyes make tears. Tears wash away the dust.
Did you know?
Not everyone is able to see. But people who are blind can still read. Braille letters are made of raised dots. A person reads them by touch.
|||||Kids all over the world go to school. Some of the schools look like yours. Some look different. But they have one thing in common. They are places where kids go to learn. Take a look.

This school is in Cuba.
 
Students get to school early. They wait outside the building. Soon, class will start. Students are ready to learn. 

This school is in Bangladesh.
It is a floating school. The classroom is on a boat. These students are good listeners! 

This school is in Indonesia. 
It is in a rain forest. Students study nature. They learn how to care for it. In this photo, kids are eating lunch together. After lunch, they clean up.

This school is in Germany.
It is a digital school. Students use technology to learn. These kids are using tablets. Look how focused they are. 

Where in the World?
Look at the map. Then find the countries you have read about.

|||||The rainforest is a wet, warm habitat. Many types of plants and animals live here. There are four different layers in the Amazon rainforest. Learn about them here.  
The top layer of the rainforest is the Emergent layer. This level gets the most sunlight. Colorful birds and butterflies fly above the trees. Small mammals swing through the branches. 

Only a few rays of sunlight shine through the Canopy layer. Many small mammals and birds live here. Sloths and monkeys move from treetop to treetop. Owls and toucans fly from branch to branch.

The Understory layer is home to many plant and animal species. There is lots of shade in this layer. Snakes slither and amphibians crawl. Bats hang from branches. All types of plants grow here. 
The Forest-floor layer is the lowest level in the rainforest. It is dark and damp. Leaves block the sunlight. Insects and rodents move around on the dirt floor. Jaguars hunt for food.
|||||The Arctic is one of the coldest habitats on Earth. Animals there have thick fur. Some have a layer of fat to keep them warm. Here’s how Arctic animals survive.
Furry animals make the most of their coats. The Arctic fox uses its tail as a scarf.
The weasel finds a  home in a cozy place. It keeps warm by curling up and waiting until it’s time to explore.
How do musk oxen stay warm? They huddle to share heat.
A walrus has a layer of fat called blubber. Blubber keeps it warm. If the sun is out, a walrus goes sunbathing.

|||||Imagine having everything you need—health centers, grocery stores, parks—just a few steps from home. It could make you healthier and build stronger bonds between you and your neighbors. 
This is the idea behind the 15-minute city. Here, people can get all the services they need within 15 minutes of home, on foot or by bike. This urban model is being developed in cities around the world, from Paris, France, to Portland, Oregon. 
Carlos Moreno is a scientific director at France’s IAE Paris Sorbonne Business School. He’s also a key theorist behind the 15-minute-city plan for Paris. “My vision is to propose a livable city that increases the quality of life,” Moreno told TIME for Kids. 
Healthier Living
Moreno has been a champion of 15-minute cities for years. They were inspired by the need to fight climate change. In a 15-minute city, car travel is not a priority. The focus is on building more sidewalks and bike lanes. Moreno says walking or biking across the city “is a good way to radically reduce co₂ emissions.” 
Anne Hidalgo is Paris’s mayor. She plans to develop 15-minute communities throughout the French capital. In part, that means removing 60,000 parking spaces by 2024, and creating bike lanes on every one of the city’s streets. 
This type of design does more than benefit the planet. It promotes a healthier way of life. Joe Zehnder is chief planner for the city of Portland, Oregon. He’s developing “20-minute neighborhoods.” Having grocery stores close to home gives people “better access to healthy foods,” Zehnder says, and “the ability to make healthier choices.”
Welcome Home 
Zehnder has another important goal as he builds 20-minute neighborhoods in Portland. He wants to make these places inclusive. 
As a neighborhood becomes more convenient, housing costs can increase. This leaves a lot of people out. Zehnder says his approach is “to try to create more housing of more types, so that households in different economic situations have an opportunity to live there.”
Moreno is focused on inclusion too. He says the “new economic and social model” should be to create places that people of all backgrounds can call home.
|||||The Titanic was found underwater in 1985. That’s 73 years after it sank. Today, scientists are still discovering objects from this historic ship. The artifacts teach us about the Titanic and the people on board. Which artifact do you think is the most interesting?
Mug
The White Star Line was the company that ran the Titanic.

Clothing
Who wore this vest? Was it a worker? A passenger?   
Playing cards
Passengers aboard the Titanic played games to pass the time.
Propeller
The Titanic’s propeller helped move the ship. It was big! 

Binoculars
A person on the Titanic used these. What did he or she see from the ship?

Violin
 
The bandleader kept playing as the Titanic sank.
|||||There are thousands of languages in the world. More people speak Mandarin than any other. Mandarin is a form of Chinese. Read on to learn more about the Chinese language. 
The Chinese language does not use letters. It uses characters, or symbols. Each symbol has its own meaning. 

Chinese characters can be a form of art. Calligraphers use ink and brushes to make the writing look beautiful. 
Chinese has been around for thousands of years. This artifact shows early Chinese writing. 

All around the world, kids are learning Mandarin. Do you want to learn a new language? It is helpful to practice by speaking, reading, and writing in that language. 
Want to practice Chinese?
 Here are some Chinese characters, how to say them, and what they mean. Try saying these words aloud. Then practice writing the characters. 

|||||Who’s your 2020 hero? TIME for Kids is asking readers to tell us about people taking heroic steps to help one another during the COVID-19 pandemic. Do you know a doctor, a nurse, a scientist, a teacher, a grocery worker, or any other person who is helping people through the coronavirus pandemic this year? We’d love to hear about them. Email us at tfkeditors@time.com for the chance to be included in a future issue of TIME for Kids.
|||||Caves are full of interesting animals. These animals fly, swim, and slither. Here, read about four cave creatures. Learn how they have adapted to their dark habitat.
Bats
Bats make a high-pitched sound. It bounces off the cave walls. They use the echo to find their way in the dark.   
Blind Cave Fish
The blind cave fish has no eyes. These fish feel vibrations in the water. This helps them know where to go.
Glowworms
Look at these at glowworms. They create their own light. They are lighting up the cave for these explorers.
Olms
Olms are cave salamanders. They cannot see well. But their other senses are strong. They can live 100 years. 
|||||Alex Vardakostas is the co-owner of a burger restaurant. It’s called Creator. But Vardakostas doesn’t flip burgers. Neither do his employees. 
Creator is a burger restaurant in San Francisco, California. The burgers are made by this robot.
At Creator, burgers are made by a robot. Vardakostas invented the machine. It grinds meat, cuts vegetables, and grates cheese. 

Automation is taking over jobs. That means work is being done by machines or computers, not people.
This robot can perform surgery. Medical staff are watching a demonstration.
As technology improves, some tasks can be done more quickly or cheaply by machine. By 2030, up to 800 million people could lose their jobs to machines. That’s according to a 2017 report. People could also have trouble finding new jobs.
Robots are better at some jobs than at others. Martin Ford is a futurist. That’s someone whose job is to make predictions about the future. He says machines can do jobs that don’t change from day to day. “It’s the kind of job where you come to work and you work on the same kind of thing again and again,” he says. Taxi drivers, cashiers, and doctors all do some tasks that can be done by machines. 
This robot is in a factory. It is building a car part.
What jobs are safe? “Anything where you’re coming up with new ideas,” Ford says. Some of those jobs are in counseling, science, and the arts. 
At Creator, the machine helps keep costs low. But the restaurant still needs employees. They greet and help customers. “All the work is creative and social,” Vardakostas says.
A police robot is on patrol in China. It helps police officers. It can keep people safe.
This article was written by a human (hi, reader!). But someday, articles could be written by computers. Already, the Associated Press (AP) uses software called Wordsmith. 
It scans information. Then it creates a report. The sentences look like they were written by a person. At the AP, Wordsmith creates only simple articles. No reporters have been put out of work.  
|||||Over the Moon is an animated movie musical. It follows a girl named Fei Fei. She is smart and determined. And she loves science. Fei Fei is on a quest to find Chang’e. Chang’e is the moon goddess in Chinese mythology. 
Actress Cathy Ang voices the role of Fei Fei. She told TIME for Kids that she grew up watching movie musicals. That is one reason she loved playing Fei Fei. Here is another reason: “I’m Chinese-Filipina,” Ang says. “So it was really exciting for me to bring my heritage to the table.” Over the Moon is streaming on Netflix starting October 23.
|||||Time flies! The first issue of TIME for Kids was published in September 1995. That means TFK is turning 25. To honor our 25th anniversary, we’re pulling TFK stories from the archives and highlighting them in this space. Each archival issue relates to something in the news today. We hope these stories provide background for the things you’ll read about.
This week, we’re exploring the creative ways athletes have found to stay in shape for the Summer Olympics. In 2020, the games were postponed because of the pandemic. They’re now set to begin in July 2021, in Tokyo, Japan. 
We last reported on the Summer Olympics in September 2016. The games had just taken place in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and the United States had won big. Swimmers Michael Phelps and Katie Ledecky took home multiple gold medals. So did gymnast Simone Biles. “Every single day that I’ve had here has been like a dream come true,” Biles said at the time.
|||||Wyatt Baldwin has been playing rock, paper, scissors for as long as he can remember. While he was growing up, the game helped him settle disagreements with his three older sisters. "I never got the chance to pick what we watched on TV until I learned the sport of rock, paper, scissors," he told TIME for Kids. 
Baldwin is the founder and president of the World Rock Paper Scissors Association. He has played in and hosted competitions around the globe. He once enjoyed a 43-game winning streak. The secret to his smashing success? "Look for patterns in either your opponent's moves or behavior," he says. As Baldwin and all serious rock, paper, scissors players know, there's more to the game than luck.
More Than Luck
Rock, paper, scissors probably originated in China about 2,000 years ago. Today, people everywhere play it. While some cultures use different symbols, the idea remains the same. You and an opponent each "throw" one of three hand symbols, and you either win, lose, or tie (see "Who Wins?"). 
Many people think rock, paper, scissors is all luck. Your probability of winning a round seems as good as your chance of losing one. But in reality, the outcome of the game isn't completely random, because human behavior isn't random. There are patterns in the way people make decisions, even quick ones.
A 2014 study at Zhejiang University, in China, looked at the psychology of how people play rock, paper, scissors. It followed 360 students in a tournament. Each student played 300 rounds of the game in random groups. Researchers discovered two key patterns: Winners tended to repeat their winning hand symbols. Losers tended to go from rock to paper to scissors. 
Ready to Rock
Knowing the psychology of rock, paper, scissors isn't a sure ticket to winning a match, but it can help. Ken "Whitey" Watson is one of the best players in the world. According to him, winning the game takes skill and knowledge. "You have to size up your opponent," he says. Though luck and chance play a part, "you have to be prepared and have a strategy. Part of my strategy is being confident."
Confidence comes with practice, and according to Baldwin, "practice, practice, practice" is the key to success. "You can even try practicing against yourself in front of a mirror," he says, "but for me that always ended up in a tie." 
|||||There are nearly 2,800 working satellites in space. That’s according to the Union of Concerned Scientists. We depend on these devices for technology we use every day, such as video calls and weather tracking. Scientists use them to study the Earth and space.
But many other satellites in orbit are broken and still floating around up there. Some of these eventually fall back toward the Earth. They either land or burn up in the atmosphere. 
Space junk is a problem. Debris floating around the Earth puts technology and future space missions at risk. Experts are working on a solution.
SUPER SIZE Space junk comes in different sizes. This big chunk from a rocket fell to Earth in May.
Trash Trouble
Orbital debris is a type of space junk. It’s any human-made object that has stopped working but continues to float around the Earth. This includes abandoned satellites and pieces of spacecraft. “It’s a legacy problem,” Vitali Braun told TIME for Kids. He’s an engineer at the European Space Agency (ESA). “You have a satellite or rocket stages put into space in the 1960s, and they’re still there.”
Space junk can also include fragments of objects. These occur when satellites collide with things. Or they result from an object crashing into an old rocket stage that has fuel in it. This can cause an explosion.
DAMAGED This solar panel from the Hubble Space Telescope was damaged by orbital debris.
Heather Cowardin works at NASA. She says the United States is tracking more than 23,000 pieces of space debris (see “Too Much Junk”). These tiny fragments damage working satellites. This can affect research in space.
Cosmic Cleanup
SPACE SWEEPER Astroscale and Japanese government officials pose in front of an ELSA-d satellite. It will use magnets to collect space debris.
Companies are working to clean up the debris. Astroscale is one based in Japan. It plans to launch a mission called ELSA-d. The mission will try using magnets to collect space debris. The idea is to get companies to put magnetic plates on the satellites they launch. An Astroscale spacecraft could attach to the magnetic plate and remove the satellite when it failed.
TRASH COLLECTORS Illustrations from Astroscale show the tools they hope to use to remove space junk
Another mission is led by a Swiss company called ClearSpace. ClearSpace plans to launch a debris-removal spacecraft in 2025. The craft will grab a piece of an old rocket, slow it down, and eject it back to Earth.
TRASH COLLECTORS Illustrations from ClearSpace show the tool they hope to use to remove space junk.
Governments are trying to help too. Some are updating their space guidelines. This is to limit the amount of debris created. The sustainability of space “is not a single-agency or a single-country problem that we can solve,” says Cowardin. “We have to work on this together.”
Too Much Junk
Thousands of marble-size fragments and millions the size of pencil lead are orbiting Earth. That’s according to NASA’s Heather Cowardin. Some result from satellites colliding with other objects. Cowardin says fragments can travel extremely fast. And they damage working satellites. This chart from ESA shows the increase in space debris over time.

|||||What was life like in ancient Rome? In many ways, it was like our life today. We can tell from the objects that have survived. Take a look at these everyday items. They were discovered by archaeologists. What do they tell you? 
People in ancient Rome played games. They used dice like these. Sometimes, people rolled the dice to settle an argument. These dice are made of ivory.
Romans shopped at markets. They paid for things using metal coins. Some coins showed the emperor’s face. Others showed an important monument.
How did the children of ancient Rome do their homework? They wrote on waxed tablets, using a Stylus. The flat end of the stylus was used to rub out mistakes.
Romans buried the ashes of the dead in urns. This urn is made of marble. Often, a scene was carved on an urn. Some scenes show daily life. Others tell a well-known story. 
|||||Sandra Boynton is the author and illustrator of more than 60 children’s books. Yo-Yo Ma is a world-renowned cellist. They came together to create a short, animated video to accompany Jungle Night, a new book by Boynton that takes little ones on a journey through a sleeping jungle. Boynton wrote, illustrated, and directed the creation of the Jungle Night video, while Ma used his cello to bring to life the sounds of snoozing jungle creatures. Ma also performed in the soundtrack that accompanies the book. 
The Jungle Night book and video were released today. TFK Kid Reporter Sophia Hou spoke with Boynton and Ma about their collaboration and what inspires them. 
Sandra Boynton
The book is called Jungle Night, and it’s a board book, like many of my books. It comes with a free download of two audio tracks: one with narration and a mystical handpan track—a book narration done by my son Keith, and Yo-Yo Ma does animal snores on his cello in the background. Part two is an instrumental performance.
A friend of mine who is a novelist is good friends with Yo-Yo Ma, and I didn’t know him. This [was] a couple years ago. Her name is Ann Patchett. She said, “You two should absolutely work together. You both have grandchildren, he loves children, and you’re both kind of like children yourself: very playful, and just lively. It would be a great collaboration.” And then he was coming to perform at Tanglewood Music Center, which is a summer concert place in the Berkshires [in Massachusetts], not far from my house. Ann was visiting, and I said, “We should go see that.”
Well, we met at the soundcheck. He was performing the six Cello Suites by Bach. It’s a solo performance, which is extraordinary, for an instrumentalist who carries an entire performance as a soloist on the stage with no one else there. It’s the greatest thing I’ve ever seen on stage. The cello’s my favorite instrument.
Just his playfulness, just his openness to anything, his good nature. He’s tireless, he wants to keep trying things, and it’s just about as exciting as collaboration can be.
I’ve created a lot of videos, some animated, some live-action. Sometimes they’re before I do a book, and sometimes they’re after. Books are two-dimensional, and music is music-dimensional. To be able to also then have a visual component, a moving visual component, is exciting.
Some of the sounds I can’t remember how I came up with them, because I wrote them so long ago. What was fun is then adding more animals and saying, “OK, if the tiger does zeee-zooo-haaa, and if the cheetah does chee-chee-taaah . . . what do the monkeys do?” [The monkeys go chatter-chooo chatter-chooo.] Like everything, it’s an evolution.
Oh my goodness, everything. People who write for children, I think, are writing for themselves first, do you know what I mean? You know, I remember my childhood very vividlyI think when you’re writing for children, it’s first for your own childhood. And then—I have four children, they’re all grown now—to be writing for them when they were little. Books mattered to me so much as a child. The exciting thing is to imagine that maybe my books matter a lot to specific children.
Yo-Yo Ma
I’ve done soundtracks, but not for books. So this is the very first time that I did a soundtrack for a book, which is very exciting. It’s Sandy Boynton who thought up the idea [of] the specific sounds that the animals would make in Jungle Night, and then I would try to match [them] on the cello.
I was always looking at the animals and creatures. And Sandy actually is a wonderful musician. So here you have an author who is a writer and illustrator, and has a very vivid imagination, and has a very specific idea for what the sound of each animal is going to be. I tried to match her imagination.
We were doing this all virtually. I think the exciting part was working with the author, with Ms. Boynton, in terms of really being able to fit in and capture what she was imagining—because as you know, she has a very particular kind of humor and sensibility about what she does. I just really wanted to get the feelings of what she had for the music and just to get it right according to the way she thought of it. And that was a lot of fun to try to do because I admire her work a lot.
It was more like an adventure. All the challenges are welcome. Whatever it is, if it doesn’t sound quite right, it’s a challenge. Well, let’s try something else. So you kind of [are] just always moving forward. And so I think challenge not in the negative way, but challenge as in, like, “Yeah, let’s try to get that just so.”
Oh my gosh, I think it was the elephant. Because if you hear it, not only does the elephant make that very loud noise where it wakes up the whole forest, the whole jungle—but you can also hear the echo afterward. So it’s a grrrr, and then you go whoooo. You hear the echo that echoes through the forest so you get the feeling of space. You get the feeling like this is not only a sound that’s happening in one place, but it kind of reverberates throughout the whole jungle. And that’s the thing that ends up waking everybody up.
This interview has been edited for clarity and length.
|||||Mrs. Hall’s students at Durham Academy, in North Carolina, shared their feedback and ideas with us. Read what a few of them had to say.
I loved the TFK article about rock, paper, scissors (January 15). I use rock, paper, scissors whenever I am disagreeing with my sister and friends. It is helpful to look for patterns. Thank you for the tip. —Kylie Mitchell, 11
“New COVID-19 Challenges” (January 22) was really informative. Kids my age might not watch the news. I think you should keep talking about COVID-19 to keep kids up to date. —Julian Edwards, 11
I loved reading about the movie Soul (January 22). In a future TFK, I would love to see more movie reviews and also maybe some book reviews. —Elizabeth Wilber, 11
I really enjoyed “Gathering Storms” (January 15). It informed me about hurricanes. One suggestion for a future topic is how climate change is affecting animals. —Madeline Pappas, 10
Write about sustainable farming. It would be great for kids to learn about how we get our food! —Leah Silliman, 11
There should be a craft page in TFK to make it more engaging. The craft could be upcycling or how to draw a cat—whatever! This would make TFK more fun. —Caroline Hunter, 11
Do you have feedback or ideas to share? Write to us at tfkeditors@time.com. 
|||||Do you love to draw? Join the journey as Drew, creative director of TIME for Kids, and his sidekick Rosie explore their imaginations and dream up fun things to sketch each week.
In this episode, Drew and Rosie draw giraffes!
|||||Insects are small creatures. They all have six legs and a hard outer shell. Some insects have wings and can fly. Insects come in many shapes, sizes, and colors. Read on to learn more about them.
Blending In 
This insect is called a walking stick. It looks like a twig, doesn’t it? This helps it hide from predators. 
Working Together 
Ants are social insects. They live and work together in large groups. A group of ants is called a colony.
Fantastic Fliers
Look at those wings! Dragonflies zoom around looking for mosquitoes, flies, and moths to eat. 
Sneak Attack
This is a praying mantis. It is a predator. It uses its long front legs to catch other insects for food.
Did You Know?
Insects have three main body parts. These are the head, thorax, and abdomen. Look at this diagram to see the body parts of a bee. 

|||||Inventions have the power to help people. They can improve the way we work, play, and live. Each year, TIME for Kids picks the best new inventions. This year, we let Gitanjali Rao take the lead.
 Gitanjali, 15, is an inventor. She’s also TIME’s Kid of the Year. Gitanjali picked these nine items from TIME’s list of the 100 Best Inventions of 2020. We hope the inventions on this list will inspire you. Read on to learn more.
Growing Up
Want to grow a garden? With Gardyn, you don’t need a backyard. Gardyn is a vertical growing system. It is made for indoors. And it’s powered by artificial intelligence. Choose from 32 plants. They come in seedpods. Gardyn’s app tells you when your crops are ready to be picked. —By Marjorie Korn
Tiny Car
City Transformer’s Electric Vehicle is tiny. It has only two seats. But it can reach speeds of 55 miles per hour. It also has special wheels. They can be pulled in to make the car more narrow. This helps it fit in tight spots. —By Patrick Lucas Austin 
Cleaner Water
Plastic bottles pollute the planet. But there’s a new way to drink on the go. CrazyCap is a bottle cap. It’s reusable. It uses a type of light to purify water in just 60 seconds. The cap has two settings. One cleans water from taps and fountains. The other cleans water from streams and ponds.  —By Simmone Shah
High-Tech Tutor
ABII is a robot tutor. It helps kids learn math and reading. Many students are learning from home because of the coronavirus pandemic. ABii can help. It comes with lessons. They’re created by teachers. Its camera notices changes in a student’s attention. Then ABii can change the way it teaches to help the learner.  —By Nadia Suleman
Following the Conversation
The Meeting Owl Pro can make virtual class feel more real. It’s a 360° tabletop camera. It moves its lens and microphone to whoever is speaking. People working remotely feel more like they’re in the room. Owl Labs products are used at offices and universities. Schools around the country are using them too! —By Jesse Will
Helpful Headset
AlterEgo is a headset. It seems to read your thoughts! You can use it to communicate with a computer. But you don’t have to speak. You don’t even have to touch your keyboard. Just ask a question to yourself, silently. The headset reads signals from your face. Then it answers the question on your laptop! —By Jason Cipriani
A Robot for Kids
This friendly robot helps kids learn social skills. It’s on our list of the Best Inventions of 2020.
Moxie is not just any robot. It’s a robot made for kids from 5 to 10. It was created by experts in education. It helps boost kids’ empathy and social skills. Moxie encourages reading and drawing. It even sends kids on missions to check in with family and friends. —By Marjorie Korn
Ready to Wash
Handwashing helps keep viruses away. But not everybody has water and soap at home. Enter the LIXIL SATO Tap. It’s a portable handwashing station and soap holder. It’s expected to go on sale in early 2021. It will cost between $3 and $6. The company is working to get the SATO Tap to 500,000 homes around the world next year. —By Ciara Nugent
Gaming for All
Playing video and computer games is difficult for people who live with a disability. Now there’s the Logitech G Adaptive Gaming Kit. It comes with 10 buttons. It also comes with triggers, hooks, pad, loops, and more. Gamers can make their controllers easier to use. So more people can play games! —By Matthew Gault
|||||On August 28, 1963, people poured into Washington, D.C. They came for a special event. It was called the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. It drew about 250,000 people. They wanted the United States government to pass new laws. These laws would give equal rights to all Americans.
That day, Martin Luther King Jr. gave a big speech. It became known as his “I Have a Dream” speech. It’s one of the most important speeches in U.S. history. “I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character,” King said. His voice soared over the crowd. King spoke for 18 minutes.  
Martin Luther King Jr. gives his “I Have a Dream” speech at the March on Washington in 1963.
The March on Washington showed Americans the power of peaceful protest. It also brought about change. The next year, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed a bill into law. It banned discrimination. 
The Life of a Leader 
King was born in Atlanta, Georgia, in 1929. He became a minister. In Montgomery, Alabama, he preached about equality for all. But in the 1950s, Black people and white people were often separated. They went to different schools. They ate at different restaurants. Many Americans did not want it this way.
In 1955, Claudette Colvin protested in Montgomery. She refused to give up her bus seat to a white person. Rosa Parks did the same thing. Both were arrested. But these brave people moved the country forward. 
King also risked his safety for change. In 1963, he was arrested at a march in Birmingham, Alabama. This only made him work harder. He joined other civil rights leaders. They planned the March on Washington.
The 1963 March on Washington was one of the largest civil rights gatherings in U.S. history.
Today, people are still fighting for equal rights. King’s words continue to inspire people around the world.
|||||Artists use tools. A painter might use a brush. A sculptor might use a chisel or saw. Lately, some artists have been using computers. These machines help them create surprising new works. Here are three of those artists.
Creative Robots
Sougwen Chung has painting partners. They are robots. Chung programmed them to paint the way she paints. In the picture, she is painting with the help of several robots. She does not always know what to expect. “I just go with what I’m feeling right now,” she says.
Strange Forms
“We are drawn to things that make us curious,” says architect Michael Hansmeyer. There are countless tiny details in his sculptures. Only a computer could make them. First, Hansmeyer creates the designs on a computer screen. Then he uses lasers or 3D printers to make the artwork.
Color By Numbers
What does data about air pollution look like? For Ben Shneiderman, it looks like colorful rectangles. He turns data into art. Here, we see a map of the amount of a greenhouse gas that different countries produced in 2010. “There is a lot of unity between science and art,” Shneiderman says.
|||||One night, Christine Carter and her young daughter were making a list. They called it “Three Good Things of the Day.” While braiding Carter’s hair, her daughter said, “Mom, this is going to be one of my three good things.”
Sharing a laugh with a classmate is good for your health.
They were naming things they were grateful for. Scientists say this is one way to be happier. Carter is a social scientist. She teaches at the University of California in Berkeley. She studies how people can develop positive emotions, such as gratitude and happiness.
Feeling sad is natural. But you can make a habit of feeling positive. Then sadness will pass more quickly. How do you do it? By noticing the good things in life. “We can practice bringing happiness to ourselves,” Carter told TIME for Kids. “It is like putting money in the bank. We can be ready for hard times in the future.”
How To Be Happy
Feeling connected to other people makes us happy.
How can you practice happiness? You can observe your emotions, even when you are feeling blue. “Look inside yourself with curiosity,” Carter says. You can ask yourself: What do I feel? Where in my body am I feeling it? Does it have a color? A shape? Believe it or not, this will make you feel better.
But the best way to get happy is to be kind, Carter says. Helping others gives life purpose. In a small way, you are changing the world.
“We are hardwired to feel better in community,” Carter says. “Our nervous system feels safe when we’re connected with other people.”
Think About It
Finding words to talk about your feelings can make you feel better when you’re sad.
Taking a look at your feelings helps you feel better. So does putting them into words. Why? A feeling starts deep inside the brain. If the feeling stays there, it may never go away. But when you talk about an emotion, it moves to the front of the brain. When it gets there, you start to understand it. That makes you feel better.
|||||We asked TFK Kid Reporters to weigh in with their thoughts, feelings, and questions about the election. Read what a few of them had to say.
I saw the long lines of people during early voting. A lot of people have been waiting for this moment for a long time, and here we are! —Miguel Madero, 10, San Antonio, TX
I wonder how the results of the election will change the path of our country. —Sophia Hou, 11, Short Hills, NJ
I was a little disappointed when I realized that I would not be getting answers sooner. I didn’t realize what a long process electing a president was! —Afton Campbell, 12, Surprise, AZ
I was confused because I felt like the results would have been out already. But my state is still busy counting votes. There were a lot of mail-in votes. —Victoria Hanson, 10, Chadds Ford Township, PA
The election felt like a big sports championship where I was cheering among all the other fans. —Rory Hu, 10, Cupertino, CA
Every time I refreshed my browser, the U.S. map filled in with more red, then more blue shapes, as Trump and Biden’s electoral votes inched toward the magic 270 number needed to win. —Jeremy Liew, 12, Riverside, CT 
It was amazing to see the historic turnout. —Abby Rogers, 11, Lahaina, HI
I just personally feel anxious because the vote can go either way. —Donnell Meekins, 10, Carson, CA
The election keeps on flip-flopping. We have not been able to truly predict the results the whole time. —Pranav Mukhi, 10, South Setauket, NY
|||||Daniel Nepstad is an ecologist. He studies the Amazon rainforest. It’s in South America. The Amazon is home to millions of species of plants and animals. But deforestation is a threat to the area. Last year, wildfires burned there. 
Ecologist Daniel Nepstad
Here are some species that Nepstad and other ecologists are working to protect.
This is a cacao (ka-kow) plant. It’s native to the Amazon. This plant is where chocolate comes from. The seeds have long been used as medicine. Some farmers are planting cacao in the Amazon. They want to bring back native plants to deforested areas.
A Brazil-nut tree has seedpods. They are as big as baseballs. When ripe, they drop to the ground. A small animal called an agouti cracks them open with its teeth. Inside, there’s a nut. The animals bury the nuts for later. New trees grow. “These trees are illegal to cut,” Nepstad says.
 
The pirarucu (pee-ra-roo-koo) is a big, ancient fish. It can weigh 300 pounds. “It needs to breathe air,” Nepstad says. People catch the pirarucu when it comes up for air. The fish can tip a canoe over as it lashes around.
The sloth lives high up in the trees. Its fur is the same color as the forest. That protects the sloth from predators. “They’re concerned about being found,” Nepstad says. Sloths come down to the forest floor about once a week. 
Leaf-cutter ants look for leaves. They bury them in big underground chambers. This is good for the soil. “It’s a tiny animal that has a big influence on how the forest grows,” Nepstad says.  
The Amazon river dolphin lives in the waters that flow through the forest. The dolphin has a pink color. That might come from scars it gets after playing rough with other dolphins. The color helps the dolphin blend in with the muddy water. This could help protect it from predators.
|||||There’s a new Adélie penguin in town. His name is Steve. He’s the star of the documentary Penguins. The movie follows Steve around in Antarctica. He sets out to build a nest, find a partner, and raise a family. 
Jeff Wilson codirected the film. 
He spoke with TFK Kid Reporter Tiana Sirmans about Steve’s journey. “Penguins have to compete with each other and with the weather,” he says. “They have to compete against the odds to survive.”
|||||On January 13, the United States House of Representatives voted to impeach President Donald Trump.
What is impeachment?
If a United States president is suspected of committing “treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors,” the Constitution gives the House of Representatives the power to impeach the president, or charge him or her with a crime. 
Impeachment does not remove a president from office. That’s up to the U.S. Senate.
Why did the House impeach the president?
The House charged Trump with encouraging a violent uprising against the government. 
On January 6, a large group of Trump’s supporters violently stormed the U.S. Capitol building, in Washington, D.C. Members of Congress were meeting to officially confirm Joe Biden as the next president. 
At a rally earlier that day, Trump repeated false claims that the election had been stolen from him. There is no evidence of widespread election fraud.
On January 12, the House asked Vice President Mike Pence to remove Trump from office. The 25th Amendment to the Constitution gives him that power if he has the support of two-thirds of Congress. “I do not believe that such a course of action is in the best interest of our nation,” Pence wrote.
The next day, all House Democrats and 10 Republicans voted to impeach the president. The final count was 232–197. 
What happens next? 
The case will go to the Senate for a trial. The Senate will vote on whether or not to convict the president. The trial won’t begin before January 19. Joe Biden will be sworn in as president on January 20. 
Why did lawmakers impeach Trump when he is about to leave office? 
Lawmakers say the president must be held accountable for his actions. Even once Trump is no longer president, the Senate can convict him. It can also bar him from holding federal office again. 
Hasn’t Trump been impeached before? 
Yes. Trump was impeached by the House in 2019. The Senate voted against removing him from office. Trump is the first U.S. president to be impeached twice.
|||||Sharks are at the top of the ocean food chain. The great white shark is one of the ocean’s most powerful predators. Take a look at how the great white shark hunts for food. 
Sniffing Out Dinner
A great white shark has a sharp sense of smell. It uses its nostrils to sniff for prey. A great white can sniff out a group of seals from two miles away. 
Quick Swimmers
A big tail helps this shark move swiftly through the water. The tail moves from side to side to drive the shark forward. This ocean predator might reach speeds of 35 miles per hour. 
A Powerful Bite
A great white shark can have 300 sharp teeth. These, and a strong jaw, help the shark capture and feast on prey. Chomp! 
Surprise, Surprise
Great whites surprise their prey. First, they sneak up on an animal. Then they attack! A great white shark likes to feast on sea lions, seals, and dolphins. 
|||||General Motors (GM) is one of the world’s major automakers. In January, the company set a goal: It would stop selling gas-powered cars by 2035. It will make more battery-powered vehicles. 

This is a big moment for the auto industry. Scientists say it’s crucial to move away from gas-powered vehicles. Doing so will fight climate change. Transportation causes about 25% of global carbon emissions. Three-quarters of that is from road travel.
Countries are taking action. In China, most new vehicles sold must be electric by 2035. The United Kingdom, Ireland, and the Netherlands will ban sales of new gas-powered cars in 2030.

Venkat Viswanathan is a professor of mechanical engineering at Carnegie Mellon University. That’s in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He told TIME for Kids, “It is now abundantly clear that electric is the future.”
EARLY MODEL Introduced in the 1990s, GM’s EV1 is the first modern electric car made to be sold in large numbers.

A Cleaner Option

Electric cars run on lithium-ion batteries. That’s what powers our mobile devices.
Making these batteries has an environmental cost. Lithium is taken from the earth, like the oil used to make gasoline. But the long-term cost is much smaller. “When you use up a battery, you can recycle the material,” Jessika Trancik says. She’s a researcher at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. That’s in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
BATTERY PACK A worker handles batteries at a factory in Nanjing, China, on March 12, 2021.
Electric cars have another environmental effect. They need energy to recharge. They get the energy from power plants. These places burn fossil fuels. But countries can switch to cleaner energy sources, such as wind and solar power. If they do, electric vehicles will get cleaner too. Even now, they’re cleaner than cars that run on gas.
WORK IN PROGRESS An assembly line worker inspects an electric car at a factory in Jinhua, China, on February 18, 2021.

Driving Ahead

Government policies can make electric cars accessible to everyone. China has invested in electric-car production for years. A basic electric car sells there for as little as $5,000.
Charging stations must be made widely available. President Joe Biden plans to build half a million new charging stations in the U.S. by 2030. Trancik hopes this will be done fairly. “It’s important to put chargers where many different people can have access to them,” she says. “Not just wealthier people.”
POWERING UP A driver charges his Chevy Bolt in San Francisco, California, in March 2019.
Last year, only 5% of the approximately 67 million new cars sold worldwide were electric (see “On the Rise”). Sales will probably increase. For Viswanathan, electric cars are just the beginning. He sees a future of solar-powered homes and electric flying cars. “Your entire life will run on batteries,” he says. “It will be a totally new world.”
On the Rise 
Worldwide, the sales of electric vehicles are going up. This chart shows that by 2030, about half of new cars sold could be electric.
 
The popularity of electric cars will rise as prices come down. That’s happening faster than expected. Technology is improving. One reason for this is that governments are investing in battery development. Soon, a plug-in vehicle may be as cheap as a gas-powered car.  
|||||Just how important is recess?    
It’s good for kids’ health. It helps with social skills, too. That’s according to a 2012 study. Now some states are beginning to protect recess time.

Recess is important for kids. Across the United States, people are working to make recess longer.

Lucy Dathan is a politician in Connecticut. She is supporting a new state bill. It requires elementary schools to provide at least 50 minutes of recess. “Recess helps kids build relationships and be creative thinkers,” Dathan told TIME for Kids.
Last year, Arizona began requiring two recesses a day for elementary school students. Chris Lineberry likes this. He is a school principal in Arizona. He has seen a “deeper level of student engagement in the classroom” since the change was made. 
Izzy Kopsky and Belle Irby talk on April 1 at the State Capitol in Arkansas.
On April 1, Arkansas passed a law. It requires a 40-minute recess for students in elementary school. Izzy Kopsky is 8. He says recess is very important. His favorite part? “Playing and talking with my friends,” he told TFK Kid Reporter Belle Irby.
|||||In 1992, Mae Jemison was the first Black woman astronaut to travel into space. In February, she published a new edition of Find Where the Wind Goes, an autobiography for young people. TFK Kid Reporter Bellen Woodard spoke with Jemison about her life and book.
1. What’s it like being in space?
One thing about space that is really interesting is being able to go around the Earth every 90 minutes and see this amazing planet that way. And I did a lot of work in space. I think people miss that astronauts do a lot of work, even if they’re not training for a mission.
2. What’s the most fun thing about being in space?
Being able to float. It’s such a silly feeling! 
3. What’s your book about?
The book is about how to navigate life and become the person you intend to be. [Life is] not about a job. It’s not even what you study. It’s the kind of person you want to be inside. For me, that was always about exploration, creativity, challenges, learning new things, and making a difference in the world.
4. I noticed that you use wind in the title and as a common theme in your book. Why?
It comes and it goes, and it leads you along a path. There are different types of wind. Some are very soft and subtle—they’re a little breeze. Some are incredibly strong. Those are some of the ways I think of the events that have happened in my life.
5. On the book’s cover, you’re wearing one earring. It’s a feather. Is there a reason you chose it?
In the book, I talk about arriving in New York City for medical school, and I had a feather in my ear. I used to wear just one feather earring in college a lot. 
6. You’ve written that you love cats and feel they have superpowers. Can you explain?
When I was growing up, we always had pets. We had dogs and cats. We even had a rabbit. But what I loved about cats was how self-confident they were. Even a small cat can still be very self-confident. Cats have these remarkable superpowers of being able to be self-confident, resilient, and flexible.
7. I heard someone say that, instead of asking kids what they want to be when they grow up, adults should ask them what they want to change. What do you think?
Let me say this: There were experiences I had growing up when I questioned the fairness of society. They helped me think about making sure people are included, and not telling folks what they can’t do just because of who society perceives them to be. That’s guided me in almost all my work. The more people’s perspectives you have, the better the ideas that come through, and the more information you have to work with.
8. I want people to be included too. What do you want to say to kids who don’t feel included?
Be who you are. Use all your talents and don’t shrink!
This interview has been edited for length and clarity. 
|||||ELISABETH ANISIMOW, 12, is an artist. She has been painting since she was a toddler. Today, her work can be found all around the world. “The best part about being a painter is that I can express myself,” Elisabeth told TIME for Kids. “Being a painter is a lot of work. But so is any other kind of creative process.”
Elisabeth is working on a series. It is called Living Art. She dresses up models. She paints them in settings from history. “There’s no real limit in the world of art,” Elisabeth says. 
The young artist lives in California. She has advice for other creators. “Believe in yourself,” she says. “Follow your heart.”

|||||Even in the age of computer keyboards, the ability to write neatly on paper is an important skill. Children are taught to print their letters, or write each one separately. That writing looks like what you’re reading right now. But what about cursive writing?
Many schools no longer teach cursive. Some people think it’s a dated form of writing and that school hours are better spent on other subjects. Others say learning to write in cursive is still useful. In 2019, the Texas state board of education reintroduced cursive as an essential skill.
Should cursive be taught in schools? We asked TIME for Kids readers to share their thoughts. Here’s what four of them had to say.
Yes
Jayita Iyengar, 12
 
East Rutherford, New Jersey 
Putting pen to paper has benefits that typing can’t replace. Research shows that learning to write by hand is a key to good spelling and composition skills. Plus, cursive writing could be considered an art form all on its own. It’s one way for students to develop the side of their brain that isn’t developed by basic reading and writing skills. 
No
Keith N. Kerman, 10
Pelham, New York 
Cursive shouldn’t be taught in schools anymore. It’s hard to do, and it’s a waste of time. The letters are so complicated and fancy that practically nobody’s able to do it accurately. And with all of this technology around nowadays, such as computers and phones, why should cursive still exist? Besides, who cares about cursive?
Yes
Justin Lining, 9 
Bellevue, Washington 
Cursive writing looks more glamorous than printing. Its letter formation has extraordinary curves and arches. Some parts are wide, while some parts are narrow. That will naturally appeal to people’s eyes and impress people. You can write in cursive faster because you connect the words. Your pen doesn’t pause. Cursive can let your thoughts flow.
No
Spriha Pradeep, 10 
Fremont, California
Learning cursive can take away time from subjects we use every day. Typing is increasingly important. Cursive writing is slower, harder to read, and harder to learn. Due to technology, cursive has become insignificant. We hardly use handwriting. There’s no reason to teach students a skill that they won’t use and will most likely forget.
The Next Debate! Should people be rewarded for recycling? Email your opinion to tfkeditors@time.com by March 8. Your response might be featured in an upcoming issue.
|||||Best Friends Animal Sanctuary
The Best Friends Animal Sanctuary is the nation’s largest no-kill sanctuary for companion animals. The former ranch is located on 20,000 acres of land in the canyons of southern Utah. On any given day, it’s home to some 1,600 homeless animals. Many of them are adoptable. The sanctuary also welcomes human visitors. Volunteers can let a dog stretch its legs by taking it on a nature hike. Or they can give a cat some fresh air by pushing it around the property in a buggy. They can chat with the birds of Parrot Garden, watch rabbits hop around the Bunny House, and visit the residents of Horse Haven. Volunteers often form a special bond with an animal. In that case, they’re able to take the creature away overnight, to see if it’s a good fit for adoption. —Shay Maunz 

Boulders Beach
Boulders Beach, just outside of Cape Town, is no ordinary stretch of sand. In the early 1980s, a colony of African penguins settled there. Since then, the penguin population has grown to between 2,000 and 3,000. Each year, they’re joined by some 60,000 humans who visit the beach to hang out with the well-dressed birds. Three wheelchair-friendly boardwalks at nearby Foxy Beach provide spots where visitors can view the penguins from afar. For an especially great photo op, try going in the morning or late afternoon. That’s when the colony is most active. —Rebecca Mordechai

Cherry Springs State Park
Can’t see the stars where you live? Try Cherry Springs State Park. It has been designated one of the best places for stargazing in the eastern U.S. by the International Dark-Sky Association. The 82-acre park is surrounded by a sparsely populated forest. Hilltops block light pollution emitted by urban centers in nearby valleys. This lack of light pollution is what makes the park’s exceptionally dark skies possible. What celestial sights might you see in Cherry Springs? Meteor showers, asteroids, and the glow of the Milky Way, to name a few. —Rebecca Mordechai

Children’s Eternal Rainforest
The Children’s Eternal Rainforest, or Bosque Eterno de los Niños, is a 55,000-acre private nature reserve in Costa Rica. In 1987, a group of Swedish schoolchildren learned about the rain forest. They were inspired to help preserve it. Together, they raised enough money to purchase 15 acres of land. The group soon organized a worldwide fundraising campaign. Children donated a total of $2 million to buy even more land. Now visitors can enjoy the nature reserve by going on a hiking tour. Along the way, they may spot rain-forest animals such as toucans and white-faced monkeys. —Constance Gibbs

Cliff Palace at Mesa Verde National Park 
Go back in time at Mesa Verde National Park. The park protects nearly 5,000 archaeological sites, preserving the heritage of the ancestral Pueblo people. The Pueblo settled in the region about 1,400 years ago and built cliff dwellings using sandstone and wooden beams. Mesa Verde is home to the Cliff Palace. It’s the largest such dwelling in North America. The Cliff Palace has 150 rooms and was once home to more than 100 people. Today, visitors can join a park ranger for a guided tour of the structure. —Rebecca Mordechai

Denali Star 
The Denali Star leaves Anchorage, Alaska, every summer morning. It makes three stops as it travels north for 356 miles, or 12 hours, until it reaches Fairbanks. It passes wetlands, forests, mountains, canyons, and glaciers. On a clear day, passengers can spot the peak of Denali, the tallest mountain in North America. The route covers territory that isn’t easily accessible any other way. “You’re off the beaten track, seeing a lot of things that people just don’t get to see from the road,” says Tim Sullivan Jr. of Alaska Railroad. Plus, for much of the trip, there’s no cell-phone service, forcing passengers to unplug and enjoy the ride. —Shay Maunz

Great Sand Dunes National Park and Preserve
Want to hit the slopes during the summer? Try Great Sand Dunes National Park and Preserve. These 750-foot dunes—the tallest in the U.S.—are the perfect place for sandboarding and sand sledding. When the afternoon sand heats up, head down to Medano Creek, where mountain snowmelt creates a natural beach for swimming and building sandcastles. Plan to be in the park at night, too. The air is so clear that you can see the Milky Way light up the sky. “This place is tailor-made for kids,” park ranger Patrick Myers says. “There really is a unique sense of uninhibited freedom here.” —Brian S. McGrath

Icehotel 
At Icehotel, guests chill out in rooms made completely from ice and snow. “It’s like walking into a world of your dreams,” says Icehotel press and media manager Josefin Lindberg. “It’s like you’re in a fairy tale.” Artists from around the world come together each year to recreate the magical dwelling. To get the job done, they use more than 3,000 tons of ice from the nearby Torne River. The majority of the hotel melts each year when the weather grows warm. But Icehotel 365, which launched in 2016, lets visitors experience the wonderland all year long, at 23°F. In warmer months, it’s chilled using refrigeration that’s powered by solar panels. —Rebecca Katzman

Neuschwanstein Castle
Neuschwanstein Castle is a fairy-tale destination for history lovers. If it looks like the castles in classic Disney parks and stories, that might be because Walt Disney visited Neuschwanstein before he built his amusement center in California. The German castle was constructed by order of King Ludwig II. But he didn’t get to live in his creation—he died before its 1892 completion. Outside, there are tall towers. Inside, there are beautiful paintings and murals. The throne hall holds a 13-foot chandelier (but never had a throne). Neuschwanstein means “new swan stone,” which explains the swan artwork throughout the castle. —Constance Gibbs

Niagara Falls State Park
Niagara Falls is famous for its raging waterfalls. But since it opened in 1885, the state park has also been a place of quiet contemplation. Visitors wander nature trails and enjoy family picnics. With the completion of a $70 million renovation that includes new walkways, America’s oldest state park is more accessible than ever. “A family with a child with a disability can enjoy this park to the utmost,” says park ambassador Marc Touma. He adds that free entry and a $3 all-day trolley pass make the park affordable, too: “You could be here for very few dollars and have a great family day.” —Brian S. McGrath

The Grand Canyon
The Grand Canyon stretches across 277 miles of northern Arizona. In some places, it is more than a mile deep. That’s about three times the height of New York City’s tallest building, One World Trade Center. “It is so massive, you cannot see all of it,” says park ranger Kari Cobb. “That’s what makes this place so intriguing.” In 2019, Grand Canyon National Park celebrates its centennial. That marks 100 years since the canyon was granted national-park status. Today, the Grand Canyon attracts some 6 million visitors each year. Skywalk, a glass-floored walkway jutting over a cliff’s edge, is a big draw for many of them. There, visitors can catch a glimpse of the Colorado River at the bottom of the canyon, flowing as it has for about 6 million years. —Brian S. McGrath 

The Lion King Adventure 
The Safari Collection, a group of wildlife lodges across Kenya, has created a Lion King–themed adventure to celebrate the 2019 remake of the classic kids’ movie. The trip is led by Robert Carr-Hartley. He served as an adviser on the original 1994 film. He led a similar safari for that movie’s animators. Carr-Hartley played an important role in the story’s creation: He recommended that the screenplay include Simba’s warthog sidekick, Pumbaa. And he helped out with the Kenyan sayings, too—most importantly, for the song “Hakuna Matata.” This new safari is a tour of Kenya that highlights several real-world inspirations for the film. In Laikipia, you’ll be able to climb the actual Pride Rock. At Giraffe Manor, a hotel in Nairobi, you can meet Pumbaa’s warthog friends and a local herd of Rothschild’s giraffes. And in the Maasai Mara National Reserve, where wildlife thrives, you’ll spend the night in a tent. You just might wake up to hear a pride of lions roaring in the distance. —Constance Gibbs

The Vessel at Hudson Yards
New York City has a new landmark. It’s called the Vessel, and it’s located at Hudson Yards. That’s a development of shops, residences, office buildings, and green spaces on the west side of Manhattan. The Vessel, which opened to the public in March 2019, is the centerpiece of it all. The honeycomb-like structure has 154 interconnecting flights of stairs and nearly 2,500 steps. As visitors climb the many staircases, they are rewarded with a series of unique city views from different angles and heights. —Rebecca Mordechai

Waitomo Glowworm Caves
The ancient caves in the village of Waitomo were first explored more than a century ago, by a Maori chief and a surveyor. Today, visitors can take a boat tour of the caverns’ lower level. Many of the tour guides are descendants of the chief who discovered the caves. As your boat floats through the grotto, look up at the magical sparkling lights. But look closely—these aren’t just any lights. They’re glowworms! Glowworms are the larvae of a type of gnat called Arachnocampa luminosa. The insect lives in New Zealand and, at this young stage, can grow as large as a matchstick. Its glow comes from its bioluminescent tail. —Karena Phan

Whispering Woods Braille Trail
Evan Barnard believes that all people should have access to nature. At age 14, he set out to create Whispering Woods, a Braille nature trail. The trail uses Braille signs and guide ropes. They help people who are blind or visually impaired explore nature without assistance. Visitors can enjoy a safe sensory experience by feeling the scratchy bark of a tree, hearing a bird’s song, or smelling the earthy odor of the woods. “It’s a transformative experience for many,” Barnard, now 21, says. —Rebecca Mordechai

Wyoming Dinosaur Center & Dig Sites
The Wyoming Dinosaur Center sits on the Morrison Formation, a huge deposit of rocks rich with prehistoric fossils. In fact, more than 10,000 bones have been found at the museum’s main dig site. Visitors can really get in on the excavation action. Kids can visit the dig sites, where they work with paleontologists to find dinosaur bones and other ancient discoveries. “We give kids the opportunity to work alongside us, to be a part of the science,” says education director Jessica Lippincott. Back inside the museum, they can join the staff to clean and examine their fossil finds. —Ellen Nam

|||||Look up at the night sky. If it is clear, you’ll see stars. You might see just one or two. Or you might see stars filling the sky. Let’s learn about them.
Twinkle, Twinkle
Stars are bright balls of hot gas. They burn many millions of miles away from Earth. Did you know that the sun is a star?
Colorful Clouds
A nebula is a cloud of dust and gases. Some nebulas are exploded stars. Some are stars that are still forming.
Shining Stars
Stars have different temperatures. This makes them different colors. Blue stars are the hottest. Red stars are cooler.
So Many Stars
Our planet is in the Milky Way galaxy. A galaxy can be made up of billions of stars. There are billions of galaxies in the universe. Imagine how many stars there must be. There are too many to count!
Did You Know?
This is an observatory. It houses a telescope. A telescope makes faraway objects look closer. Astronomers use it to see objects in space.
|||||It’s winter! Do you celebrate a special holiday? Lots of people do. There are many customs and traditions. Take a look.
Some people celebrate Christmas. They decorate a Christmas tree. They hang ornaments on its branches. This tradition is about 400 years old. Some people sing Christmas carols.
Some people celebrate Hanukkah. It is the Festival of Lights. The holiday lasts eight days. Candles are lit each night. 
Some people celebrate Chinese New Year. They hang red lanterns. They go to parades. People do a dragon dance. It is for good luck.
Some people celebrate Kwanzaa. The holiday lasts seven days. People light candles. The candles have different meanings. The holiday ends with a big meal.   
Did You Know?
Winter solstice is the shortest day of the year. After this, the days begin to have more sunlight. Some people celebrate the solstice at Stonehenge. It is an ancient monument. It is in England.

|||||More than 2 billion Tyrannosaurus rexes walked the Earth. That’s according to a new study published in the journal Science.
The reptiles were not all alive at the same time. They were around for about 1 million to 4 million years, about 70 million years ago. There may have been about 20,000 adult T. rexes at any one time. 

Only about a hundred T. rex fossils have been found. Researchers arrived at the number 2 billion by looking at key facts about T. rex, including its average body size and energy needs. 

Experts were surprised by the estimate. Charles Marshall is a biology professor at the University of California, Berkeley. He’s also the study’s lead author. “That’s a lot of jaws,” he says. “That’s a lot of teeth. That’s a lot of claws.”
|||||The 2020 Atlantic hurricane season was the most active on record. Between May and November, 30 major storms brewed in the Atlantic Ocean. Thirteen of them became hurricanes.
Eta and Iota were powerful hurricanes. Eta hit Central America in November. It caused destruction from Panama to Florida. Iota came two weeks later. It was even more powerful. 
On November 8, 2020, people in Honduras evacuate a flooded area after Hurricane Eta.
 
Scientists say climate change is to blame. Greenhouse-gas emissions are increasing. Climate change is affecting how storms behave. It’s making them stronger. 
James P. Kossin is a scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. “These storms have a human fingerprint on them,” he told TIME for Kids. 
The heavy rains of Hurricane Eta, in 2020, caused flooding and landslides in Guatemala.
 
Storm Science
Hurricanes begin in the ocean. They take their energy from ocean air. The water in the Atlantic is getting warmer. That means more energy for storms. Winds blow faster. And there is more rain.
In 2018, workers survey damage caused by Hurricane Michael in Mexico Beach, Florida.
 
Storms are moving more slowly, too. So they have time to cause more damage. In 2017, Hurricane Harvey stalled for days. It flooded parts of Texas. “That storm was devastating,” Kossin says. “It just sat there. And it rained and rained.”
Scientists can help cities plan for big storms. Dereka Carroll-Smith works at the National Institute of Standards and Technology. She studies data on communities most affected by hurricanes. These include areas with many elderly people or mobile homes. Carroll-Smith’s research helps cities make plans for evacuating people. “At some point, intense storms are going to be devastating to everyone,” she says. 
Hurricane Laura toppled power lines in Lake Charles, Louisiana, on August 27, 2020.
 
We need to slow climate change, Kossin says. Reducing greenhouse gases is the first step. “We can stop making it worse. Then we can [start] adapting to the new climate we’re in.”
|||||The moon is Earth’s closest neighbor. It is the brightest object in the night sky. Scientists have studied the moon for thousands of years. Learn more about the moon. 
The moon is about 4½ billion years old. It is made of rock. It is covered with craters. They were made when objects hit the moon’s surface. 
The moon has no weather. That means there is no wind or rain. Footprints left by astronauts could last billions of years. 
The moon has eight phases. Once a month, we see a full moon. Sometimes we can’t see the moon at all. The shape we see depends on how the Earth, sun, and moon line up.
Only 12 people have walked on the moon. U.S. astronaut Neil Armstrong was first, in 1969. He took this photo of Edwin “Buzz” Aldrin. 
Did You Know?
Astronauts first flew to the moon in 1968. That was 50 years ago. The mission was called Apollo 8. One of the astronauts took this famous photo of Earth. What a view!

|||||Sesame Street has two new residents. Elijah Walker is a weather forecaster. He has a son. The boy’s name is Wesley. He’s 5. They are part of a new effort. Sesame Street wants to answer kids’ questions about race and racism. It wants to help families talk about these issues.   
Chris Thomas Hayes plays Elijah. “I think learning about race and equality is important,” Hayes told TIME for Kids. It’s “important to recognize our differences,” he says. “But also to understand that we can talk about differences.”
|||||Animals are colorful creatures. Often, an animal’s coloring helps it stay alive. Take a look!
These baby birds have bright red mouths. The flash of color tells the parents, “I am hungry!”
Look at this lizard’s blue tongue. The color scares other animals away.
This frog is bright orange.  Its color sends a warning to other animals: “Do not eat me! I am poisonous!”
This yellow spider blends in with a flower. Bees do not see the spider. They land on the flower and the spider eats them.

|||||May is Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) Heritage Month. Here are three recent books with AAPI themes or characters. Which one would you like to read? 
The Last Fallen Star
In The Last Fallen Star, 12-year-old Korean-American Riley Oh wants to become a healing witch like her sister, Hattie. Hattie creates a spell so she can share her magic with Riley. But the spell goes wrong. To fix everything, Riley must find the last fallen star.
Author Graci Kim told TIME for Kids that she hopes readers know it’s okay to feel like an outsider, as Riley does. “True acceptance and true belonging start within ourselves,” she says. —By Karena Phan 
Three Keys
Three Keys follows an 11-year-old girl named Mia Tang. Mia and her family have emigrated from China to the United States. Now, they own and operate a motel. As immigrants, the Tangs are forced to deal with prejudice. 
Kelly Yang wrote Three Keys. Her experiences as an Asian American inspired Mia’s character. Yang says representation in books is important. “Growing up, I never saw an Asian-American girl on the cover of a book,” she told TFK. “It’s really important for kids . . . to see that there isn’t just one American narrative.” —By Ellen Nam
Sugar and Spite
Sugar and Spite, by Gail D. Villanueva, finds 12-year-old Jolina newly arrived on an island in the Philippines. It’s there that she learns how to make magic and potions. Jolina uses that magic to take revenge on a bully named Claudine. But revenge comes at a price. 
Filipino history and culture are woven into the book. Villanueva told TFK that kids should read about places and cultures different from their own, “because doing so helps build empathy.” —By Rebecca Mordechai
|||||On February 18, NASA’s Perseverance rover landed on Mars. Its mission: to seek evidence of past microbial life. Something may have thrived on the planet billions of years ago.
An easy landing was not guaranteed. The rover’s 300 million–mile journey to Mars’s orbit took nearly seven months. But its descent through the planet’s atmosphere took just seven minutes. The car-sized rover fell at 12,100 miles per hour, with air friction raising the temperature on its heat shield to 2,370°F.
HEATING UP An illustration shows the Perseverance rover and spacecraft entering Mars’s atmosphere.
The friction also acted as a brake. Within minutes, the ship slowed down. The heat shield came off, a parachute opened, and Perseverance drifted to the ground.
Cheers went up at Mission Control in Pasadena, California. “The team is beside itself,” said NASA engineer Rob Manning. “It’s so surreal.”
SUCCESS NASA’s Mission Control team in California cheers when the rover lands on Mars on February 18.
Looking for Clues
For the next two years or so, Perseverance will explore Mars’s Jezero Crater. The area is 28 miles wide. Some 3.5 billion years ago, it was a lake fed by water that flowed through channels in the crater’s rim. The planet’s atmosphere was thick, and it was warm, too. Those are conditions that can support life.
Later, Mars lost most of its atmosphere and nearly all of its water, turning the planet into the frigid desert that it is today. But if there was ever any life on Mars, traces might remain. Fossils of it might be found in the dried-up lake.
TOUCHDOWN After separating from the heat shield and parachute, the rover is lowered into Jezero Crater by a rocket-powered craft.
The rover’s main job is to find those fossils. But it will look for larger signs of past life, too. Rocky, wavy mounds might be found along the crater’s edges. If they’re similar to the ones on Earth, they could have been made by colonies, or groups, of microbes.
Tools of the Trade
NASA ground controllers on Earth will load the rover’s software and set up its scientific instruments. The rover’s tools include:
a camera for seeking signs of past microbial life;
an X-ray instrument for studying tiny particles;
a rock-busting laser; and
an instrument that will test whether it’s possible to make oxygen out of carbon dioxide. This technology could help future astronauts on Mars produce breathable air and rocket fuel.
The rover also carries a small helicopter called Ingenuity. Its job is to make test flights through the planet’s thin air. If it’s effective, bigger versions can be built. These could allow for exploration of hills and mountains during future missions. This is a big moment in the history of flight: If Ingenuity succeeds, it will be the first aircraft to fly on a planet other than Earth.
READY TO WORK An illustration shows the Perseverance rover, with Ingenuity below
The Perseverance rover is the ninth American spacecraft to set down on Mars. The only other nation to get there was the former Soviet Union, now mostly part of Russia. Will Perseverance discover signs or even proof of extraterrestrial life? The possibility is thrilling to imagine.
Message from Space
As if the Mars rover landing weren’t exciting enough, NASA added a twist: a secret message. The message was hidden in the pattern on the rover’s parachute (pictured). The pattern translates into binary code, the language of computers.
Maxence Abela, a computer science student in France, and his dad, Jerome, cracked the code and posted the message on Twitter. It reads: “Dare mighty things,” which is the motto of NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, in California.
|||||TFK Kid Reporter Sophia Hou spoke with Cynthia Leitich Smith, editor of the new book Ancestor Approved: Intertribal Stories for Kids. Here’s part of their conversation.
1. Tell me about the book.
Ancestor Approved is a collection of short stories and poetry. It’s set at a powwow for different tribes in Michigan. It features art and writing by a Native American illustrator and authors. 
2. How would you describe a powwow?
Powwows are cultural celebrations. They’re a lot about community—about people coming together. Powwows honor ancestors, elders, families, and rising young heroes who will take us into the future.
3. What inspired you to put together this collection of stories and poems?
I’m a member of the Muscogee Nation. When I was a young reader, there weren’t many books that featured Native heroes and modern-day stories. So I wanted to increase the availability of books about those subjects for kids who are interested. 
4. How can your anthology help readers understand Native American culture?
It gives Native Americans a look at people from tribes that are not like their own. So if you are an Ojibwe reader, you might learn something about the Cherokee. If you’re not Native, it offers a window into real-life three-dimensional kids from lots of different tribes and some of their cultural practices. But it also shows some of the ways in which they’re just like you. 
5. What do you want readers to take away from the book? 
I want them to celebrate heritage, elders, the power of friendship and family, and the importance of connecting with other people and lifting them up in a positive way. 
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
|||||On March 11, conservationists announced that Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, will join the National Audubon Society’s Lights Out program. Lights Out Philly asks people to turn off or dim the lights between midnight and 6 a.m., from April 1 until May 31. The goal is to prevent birds from crashing into windows. 

Migrating birds use the stars to navigate. They can be confused by city lights. Up to a billion birds are killed each year in the United States by flying into structures such as buildings. 

Keith Russell is with Audubon. He says hundreds of bird species are at risk of extinction because of climate change. “Many of these species also face the additional threat of colliding with buildings,” he says.
|||||Sea turtles are ancient creatures. They have been around since the time of the dinosaurs. A sea turtle spends most of its life underwater. But female sea turtles lay eggs on the beach. And all sea turtles must come to the ocean’s surface for air. There are seven species of sea turtles. Many of them are endangered. Habitat loss puts the reptiles at risk. So does plastic litter in the oceans. What makes sea turtles so special? Read the diagram to find out. 
1. Sea turtles have long flippers. These are shaped like paddles. The turtles use their flippers to move through the water.
2. Some turtles can bring their legs back into their shell. But sea turtles cannot.
3. Sea turtles have a smooth shell. This makes them super swimmers. They can swim long distances.
4. No teeth? No problem. Sea turtles have sharp jaws. This helps them slice through food.
5. A sea turtle’s eyes are like swimming goggles. They help a turtle see clearly underwater.
6. Sea turtles breathe air just like people. They rise out of the water to breathe air through their nostrils. 

|||||Kids everywhere play rock, paper, scissors. The game is very old. It is said that people played it 2,000 years ago, in China. Ready to try it out? Grab a partner and go. 
1. First, find a family member or a friend to play with. 
2. Next, pump your fist three times. Say, “Rock, paper, scissors.” 
3. Then make one of the signs on the right.
4. Who won? Look at the chart below to find out. 

|||||Brighid Pulskamp has made hundreds of face masks for the people of the Navajo Nation. The tribe lives in Utah, Arizona, and New Mexico. Pulskamp wants us to remember how the Navajo handled the pandemic. “Our people are resilient,” she told TIME for Kids.
Pulskamp has donated masks to a museum. The Autry Museum of the American West is in Los Angeles, California. In April, it put out a call for contributions. It asked for face masks, family recipes, and stories about how people were living through the pandemic.
The Autry is not alone. Museums everywhere are collecting items. When the pandemic is over, things like hand sanitizer and grocery lists will become valuable to historians. These ordinary objects will tell the story of how we experienced this life-changing event.
FACE MASKS Brighid Pulskamp’s masks are inspired by Navajo culture. They are part of the collection of the Autry Museum of the American West.
Picture This
Eventually, museums hope to collect things like medical equipment and social-distancing signs. For now, they’re mostly collecting digital artifacts, like photographs.
Maria Hagstrup is a curator at Vesthimmerlands Museum, in Denmark. Lockdown began there in March 2020. Hagstrup grabbed her camera. “I walked around, taking photos of­ what did not happen!” she says.
HAPPY BIRTHDAY Maria Hagstrup’s photos document pandemic life. This family is celebrating a birthday at a nursing home in Denmark.
In Hagstrup’s photos and in others sent to her museum, cities are deserted. There was a “feeling of great loneliness” everywhere, she says. But there were lighter moments, too: “A dentist in equipment that looks like something from space,” she says. “Or people singing from their balconies.”
Personal Stories
The California Historical Society (CHS) has asked people to share their stories. Some are from kids. Xiomara, 13, is from Marina, California. She describes staying home during the pandemic. She has missed her grandmother. “I like to let her know that I love her,” she writes. “I could do that through the phone, but it’s just not the same as hugging someone and spending the day with them.”
KIDS’ ART Children thank healthcare workers with artwork in this photo from the New-York Historical Society.
Frances Kaplan is a librarian and archivist at CHS. She says stories like Xiomara’s will help future generations understand the emotional impact of the pandemic. “People are not shying away from personal details,” she says.
That’s what museums are counting on. “History is made by ordinary people and their everyday lives,” Aaron Bryant says. He’s a curator at the National Museum of African American History and Culture, in Washington, D.C. “Even ordinary things”—like face masks—“can reflect history in an important way.”
STUCK AT HOME This photo of two sisters was submitted to the International Center of Photography’s pandemic art project.
What’s Your Story?
How has your life changed during the pandemic? Historians want to know how people are spending their time, what challenges they face, and what brings them moments of joy.
Libraries, historical societies, and museums in your area might have websites where you can submit your account of pandemic life. You may also be able to share pictures of pandemic-related objects. These might include grocery lists or art projects you’ve created while at home.
|||||On October 5, Regal announced plans to temporarily close all of its theaters in the United States. Because of the coronavirus pandemic and a surge in home-streaming, many people are no longer going out to see movies. Instead, they’re watching films at home. Some Hollywood studios have even premiered major pictures, such as Disney’s live-action Mulan, on streaming services.
Movie theaters are fun. But do we still need them? We asked TIME for Kids readers to weigh in on the question. Get your popcorn ready as you read what four of them had to say.
YES!
Ava Jung, 8
Paramus, New Jersey
There’s a difference between going to a movie theater and watching a movie at home. When people go to a theater, they can enjoy the movie without getting distracted by anything that they have to do at home. If theaters stay open, they can hire more people. Then new workers can earn money and buy stuff. That would help the economy recover. 
NO!
Zachary Haubenstock, 10 
San Diego, California 
It’s excessive to pay to watch a movie on a big screen with a bunch of people, especially during the pandemic. You can watch a movie in the comfort of your home. You can wear your PJs. You can even have an outdoor movie night with friends and practice social distancing. Even without COVID-19, theaters just won’t make it due to evolving technology.
YES!
Finnian Rawsthorne, 11 
Grand Blanc, Michigan 
You might have forgotten how much fun it is, but when the pandemic ends, you’ll want to go to the movies. They have slushies, candy, and gigantic screens. They have nice chairs with cup holders. And you don’t have to clean up! Just because you can live without them doesn’t mean that you’d want to. If you had the chance to go to a movie theater and there was no COVID, wouldn’t you go?
NO!
Camille Chien, 10 
Sunnyvale, California
I like watching movies at home. I can watch lots of different movies from different cultures. Also, some movie theaters are filthy. Most people take their snacks into the theater to eat and watch at the same time. What if you eat and then touch some part of your chair, then continue eating? The germs on the chair could get into your mouth. That’s not good!
The Next Debate! Should cursive be taught in schools? Email your opinion to tfkeditors@time.com by January 3. Your response might be featured in an upcoming issue.
|||||Amanda Gorman is the country’s first National Youth Poet Laureate. She read her poem “The Hill We Climb” at the presidential inauguration. That was on January 20. Soon after, it was announced that she’d be reading at the Super Bowl. Former First Lady Michelle Obama (above) heard Gorman speak at the inauguration. Here, she interviews the 22-year-old poet.
I was moved as I watched you read your poem. How did you prepare yourself for that moment?
Everything was moving so quickly. I didn’t get to really sit down with the text until the night before. There was a lot of the night-before performing in the mirror.
You have a mantra you recite to yourself before performing. Can you share it?
It’s inspired by Lin-Manuel Miranda’s lyrics in Moana, in “Song of the Ancestors.” That song goes: “I’m the daughter of the village chief / We’re descended from voyagers who made their way across the world.” Something like that. I wanted something that I could repeat because I get so terrified whenever I perform. So my mantra is: “I’m the daughter of Black writers who are descended from freedom fighters who broke their chains and changed the world. They call me.”
“The Hill We Climb” mentions your being a descendant of slaves. What role does poetry have to play in helping you make sense of our history?
Poetry is the lens we use to interrogate the history we stand on and the future we stand for. It’s no coincidence that at the base of the Statue of Liberty, there is a poem. Our instinct is to turn to poetry when we’re looking to communicate a spirit that is larger than ourselves.
What was your experience of the inauguration? Were you able to listen? Or were you just focused on what you came to do?
I was living in two spheres of my mind. There was the “Wow. Joe Biden’s speech was amazing. Lady Gaga just killed it.” But at the same time, 66% of my brain was dedicated to questions: “How am I going to get up to the podium without tripping? My hands are cold. Am I going to be able to flip these pages because my fingers are going numb?”
People know you as something of a prodigy—a poet who set the country on fire.
I want to highlight that this took a lifetime. Something I haven’t told anyone else is, for the past six years, whenever I’ve written a poem that I knew was going to be public or performed, I told myself, “Write the inauguration poem.” And what that meant for me is: Write a poem that is worthy of a new chapter in the country. Write something that is brave enough to be hopeful.
As you know, I have two daughters around your age. What does sisterhood mean to you and your twin?
As twins, we’re pretty dissimilar. But what bonds us isn’t our personalities. It’s our values. We’ve been raised like you, by a strong Black woman who taught us to value our ideas and our voices.
Do you have any advice for young girls who earn their way into the spotlight?
I would say to anyone who finds themselves suddenly visible and suddenly famous: Think about the big picture. You have to crown yourself with the belief that what I’m about and what I’m here for is way beyond this moment. I’m learning that I am not lightning that strikes once. I am the hurricane that comes every single year. And you can expect to see me again soon.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
|||||Do Your Part 
You can make the world a brighter place. How? Here are a few ideas. Which have you tried? Which would you like to try?
 You can volunteer.
 
Clean up litter in a park. Pick up plastic on a beach. Lend a helping hand to a neighbor in need.
 
You can raise money.
Hold a bake sale. Run a lemonade stand. You can donate the money you earn. It can help a cause you care about.
You can lead a food drive. 
Get your friends together. Collect canned food. Ask neighbors to donate too. Bring the canned goods to a food bank in your town.
 You can donate.
 Do you have clothes that no longer fit? Do you have toys you no longer play with? Give them to a local shelter.
Did You Know?
Kids help solve problems in their community every day. What can you do to help your community? Make a list of ideas.
|||||Abominable tells the story of Yi. She lives in China. Yi and her friends Jin and Peng meet a yeti, or an abominable snowman. The crew goes on an adventure to take him back to his family on Mount Everest, in the Himalayas.

ALBERT TSAI (pictured) voices the role of Peng in the film. “We are so similar in many ways,” he told TFK Kid Reporter Tyler Mitroff. “He is such a goofball and is so much fun to play.” 
|||||Olympians will soon be dancing their way to gold medals. On December 7, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) announced that breaking will be included in the 2024 Olympics, in Paris, France. Breaking is another word for breakdancing. The activity began in New York City in the late 1960s and early 1970s. 
“When it first started, it was always neighborhoods of kids just battling each other,” Victor Montalvo told USA Today. He’s a breakdancer known professionally as Bboy Victor. “Now, it’s big-stage competitions and people flying all over the world.”
Breaking isn’t the only new Olympic sport. Skateboarding, sport climbing, and surfing will debut next summer at the Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan. The 2020 Olympics were postponed until July 2021 because of the coronavirus pandemic.
In a statement, the IOC says it aims for the Olympics to be “fit for a post-corona world.” The 2024 Paris games will have fewer athletes and events. The IOC also plans to increase gender equality. For the first time, an equal number of male and female athletes will participate in the Olympics, the committee says. Of the 32 Olympic sports, 28 will have an equal number of male and female participants. And there will be 22 mixed-gender events.
Stop and Think! Why did the author choose the headline “Breaking News”? What other headlines might have worked?
|||||An American dollar is a paper bill. How much is a dollar worth? See how these coins add up to make a dollar. 
These are quarters. There are four quarters in one dollar. 
 
These are dimes. There are 10 dimes in one dollar. 
These are nickels. There are 20 nickels in one dollar.

These are pennies. There are 100 pennies in one dollar. 
|||||What is a WALKING SCHOOL BUS? It is a group of students who walk to school together. An adult joins them on the trip. Walking school buses keep kids active. They keep kids safe. Plus, they help students get to school on time. Jamie Racine leads a walking school bus. “The kids have a lot of fun,” she told TIME for Kids.
|||||The White House is in our nation’s capital, Washington, D.C. The White House is more than 200 years old. It is where the president and the First Family live. See what happens in America’s most famous home.
The president works.
He signs bills into law. Here, President Donald Trump signs a bill for kids’ health.
The president has fun.
He can go to the White House theater. President Ronald Reagan enjoyed The Sound of Music.
The president spends time with family. 
Even the president needs to relax. President John F. Kennedy celebrated Christmas at the White House. He posed for a family photo. But the pets would not sit still!
The president hosts guests.
 
World leaders visit the White House. President Barack Obama hosted Justin Trudeau. He is Canada’s leader. They waved for a photo. 
Did You Know?
U.S. presidents pay for their own food. A bill comes every month. Here, President Gerald Ford fixes an English muffin in the White House kitchen.
|||||On November 7, President-Elect Joe Biden and Vice President-Elect Kamala Harris celebrated their win, in Wilmington, Delaware. They will be sworn in on January 20, 2021. 
BIG NIGHT Harris and Biden share a stage with family, including spouses Doug Emhoff and Jill Biden.
They will take office at an important moment in U.S. history. Biden and Harris must confront the COVID-19 pandemic. And they must work to bring together a divided nation. In his speech on November 7, Biden said, "This is the time to heal in America." Read on to learn how their lives and careers prepared them to lead the country. 
A Life of Service
"I pledge to be a president who seeks not to divide but unify," Joe Biden said in his victory speech on November 7. It may be his biggest challenge in nearly 50 years of public service. 
Biden was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania, in 1942. When he was 10, his family moved to Delaware. Biden graduated from the University of Delaware. He earned a law degree at Syracuse University, in New York. In 1972, he was elected as a U.S. senator for Delaware. 
A LOOK BACK Biden stands in front of the U.S. Capitol, in Washington, D.C., in August 1974. At the time, Biden was a U.S. senator representing Delaware.
A month after that election, Biden's wife and daughter were killed in a car accident. His sons, Hunter and Beau, were hurt. Biden was sworn in to the Senate from Beau's hospital room. 
In 1977, Biden married Jill Jacobs, a teacher. In the Senate, Biden focused on foreign policy. He would serve for 36 years.  
HIGH HONOR Biden receives the Medal of Freedom from President Barack Obama in January 2017.
The 2020 presidential race was not Biden's first. He ran in 1988 and 2008. He was not successful. In 2008, Barack Obama became the Democratic presidential nominee. He asked Biden to run as vice president. Once in office, Obama trusted Biden with important tasks. These included foreign relations. 
Biden has long been known to work with politicians from both parties. On November 7, he promised to do so as president. "I will work as hard for those who didn't vote for me as I will for those who did," he said. 
Breaking Barriers
Kamala Harris made history on November 7. She became the first woman to be elected vice president of the United States. She will also be the first Black person and the first person of South Asian descent to hold that office. 
A LOOK BACK Harris gives her inaugural speech as attorney general of California in January 2015.
Harris was born in Oakland, California, in 1964. Her mother came to the U.S. from India. Her father came from Jamaica. Harris attended Howard University. The school is in Washington, D.C. 
Harris has been a trailblazer throughout her career. She entered public office in 2004. She was district attorney in San Francisco, California. In 2011, she became the state's attorney general. She was the first woman and the first Black person to hold either position. 
MEET THE PEOPLE Harris FaceTimes with a girl’s grandmother after a rally in Iowa in September 2019.
In 2016, Harris was elected as a U.S. senator for California. She became known for asking tough questions of government officials. In 2019, she ran for the Democratic presidential nomination. Biden won that nomination. He asked Harris to be his running mate. 
On November 7, Harris gave her victory speech. "While I may be the first woman in this office, I will not be the last," she said. "Because every little girl watching tonight sees that this is a country of possibilities." 
|||||Earth Day is April 22. But kids can help the planet all year long. These kids are helping to keep the planet clean. They’re picking up trash on a beach. Keep reading to learn how you can help. 

Saving water helps the planet. T
urn off the faucet while you brush your teeth. Take a shower instead of a bath. 
 
Trees are good for the planet. They make clean air for us to breathe. Study these five steps. They show you how to plant a tree. Would you like to plant a tree this Earth Day? Ask an adult to help you!
 
 
Cars and trucks cause pollution. Choosing to walk or bike helps keep the air clean. Plus, biking is good exercise.
Set paper, metal, and plastic aside. They can be recycled and made into something new. 

 
This saves energy. Using too much energy is wasteful. Turn off the lights when you leave a room.




|||||Roads don’t just appear by magic. Neither do sidewalks or traffic lights. These things are carefully planned by engineers. 
An engineer is a person who designs and builds things. YUNG KOPROWSKI (pictured) is an engineer. She works in transportation. She plans new ways for people to get around.
She fixes old transportation systems, too. “Transportation engineers make life safer and easier,” Koprowski told TFK. “We help people travel to the places where they live, work, and play.”
|||||How do you like your pizza? The answer could depend on where you live. Here are three different styles of the popular food. Dig in! 

New York-style pizza has a thin crust. It is often sold by the slice. Many New Yorkers fold a slice in half to eat it. This makes pizza a perfect snack to eat on the go. 
Chicago deep-dish pizza is cooked in a cast-iron pan. It is thick, like a pie. That means there’s room for plenty of cheese and tomato sauce. Eat it with a knife and fork.
Detroit-style pizza is shaped like a rectangle. The crust is thick and doughy in the center. At the edges, it’s crispy. Hot tomato sauce is added only after the pizza is baked.
|||||Jon Klassen is an author and illustrator. He’s written four books for kids. They have been published in many languages. TIME for Kids asked Klassen five questions about his work. 
Jon Klassen makes picture books. He’s an author and illustrator.
 
Did you always like to write and draw?
Klassen has been writing and drawing stories since he was little.
 
In the second or third grade, I started writing stories. And I drew pictures to go with them. I still sort of work that way. I don’t have a huge interest in making pictures if there’s not a story. 
What’s your process for creating a new story?

I don’t start with an ending in mind, or even a whole story. I start with the setup. Hopefully, that setup gives birth to some characters. The characters have to feel natural. If I feel like I’m forcing them to do what they’re doing, the book won’t work, even if the setup is funny. 
How do you know a story is finished?
Klassen’s books have been published in many languages.
 
I tinker with it until it feels like it has ended. I like to try to change the idea of what an ending feels like. It might not be a traditional ending. But it will still cause something to click in your head, so you say, “That’s done.” 
How do you make pictures?
 
I do a lot of tests. I might paint 12 big rocks on a page. I’ll circle my favorite four rocks. Then I scan them. On my computer, I assemble those rocks with all my other pieces. I try to make the page feel cohesive. 

What is your favorite part of writing books for kids?
These kids are learning about a book called Square. Klassen illustrated it.
Kids are careful readers, and they focus hard on what they read. I can count on kids to pick up on details. It’s an honor.
Out Now
The Rock from the Sky is Jon Klassen’s newest book. It contains five stories about three animals. It’s also about friendship, jealousy, and the future. 
Like all of Klassen’s books, this one begins with a problem: There’s a giant rock falling from the sky. And it’s heading straight for the turtle. What will happen next?
|||||Who’ll become the Kid of the Year? The answer will be revealed December 4 on an hour-long TV special on Nickelodeon. Read about Jack Dalton, one of the top 20 finalists, below. 
Jack Dalton, 10, teaches kids about orangutans. He is a youth ambassador for the Orangutan Alliance. He travels to zoos, museums, and schools around the country. He also sells bags to benefit the animals. He hopes to inspire other people to care about the endangered apes. “I really want to protect animals,” Jack says. “That’s why I work for this cause. We need everyone to contribute to it.”
|||||Joe Biden’s inauguration was held on January 20. He was sworn in as the 46th president of the United States. In November, Biden won the presidential election. He beat Donald Trump.

Biden took the oath of office at the U.S. Capitol. It’s in Washington, D.C. Then he gave a speech. He called for unity. “My whole soul is in this: bringing America together, uniting our people, and uniting our nation,” he said. 

Kamala Harris was sworn in as vice president. She’s the first woman to become vice president. She’s also the first Black person and the first person of South Asian descent to do so. 
Joe Biden takes the oath of office. He uses a Bible that has been in his family since 1893.
 
Making History

Usually, many people travel to Washington, D.C., for a presidential inauguration. But not this time. Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, crowds were limited. Instead, nearly 200,000 flags were planted on the National Mall. They stood for people who were unable to attend.
Three former presidents were there: Barack Obama, George W. Bush, and Bill Clinton. So was the outgoing vice president, Mike Pence. President Trump did not go to the inauguration. He was the first outgoing president to skip the event in 152 years. Andrew Johnson skipped the inauguration in 1869. 
Kamala Harris is sworn in as vice president. Her husband, Doug Emhoff (right), is the nation’s first-ever Second Gentleman.
 
Festivities continued into the night. Harris gave a speech from the Lincoln Memorial. She echoed Biden’s message. She called on Americans to “believe in ourselves, believe in our country, believe in what we can do together.” Later, a fireworks display lit up the sky.
|||||It was February 2019. Officials in Malaysia had gotten a tip. Someone was sneaking illegal goods into the country.
Police went to a factory and a warehouse. They found 30 tons of meat and scales from pangolins. 
Pangolins are native to Asia and Africa. It’s illegal to buy or sell them. But that doesn’t stop smugglers. Malaysian police have taken more than 13 tons of pangolin scales from smugglers since 2017. 
A pangolin has scales. They help protect it from predators.
Pangolin scales are made of keratin. It’s the same material your hair and nails are made of. In parts of Asia, the scales are made into powder. It’s used as medicine. But there’s no proof that it works.
 
About a million pangolins have been killed in the past 10 years. People who kill them are called poachers. Soon, pangolins may be gone forever.
 
The British royal Prince William is president of United for Wildlife. The group works to protect animals. In a video, William says: “Pangolins risk becoming extinct before most people have even heard of them.”
WildAid is another group that works to protect animals. It tries to stop people from buying pangolin scales.
But countries in Asia and Africa must help too. Peter Knights leads WildAid. He says governments need to stop poachers and smugglers. “The problem is ultimately in the hands of the countries where pangolins live,” he says.
Customs officers in China guard illegal pangolin scales.
Bad Trade
Pangolins are illegally traded all around the world. Most pangolin products are smuggled out of Africa. Some end up in Europe and the United States. But where do most illegal pangolin products go? Asia. Seven of the top 10 places involved in pangolin trafficking are found on that continent. Some of them are labeled on this map. 

|||||Legend has it that in the 1970s, a boat captain spotted a green banana peel floating above a sinkhole off Florida’s coast. That sinkhole became known as the Green Banana. 
A sinkhole is a hollow place in the Earth in which water collects. The Green Banana starts about 160 feet below the ocean’s surface. It goes another 265 feet down. Scientists think it formed thousands of years ago. Sea levels were lower then, exposing porous rock. Over time, rain carved a hole in the rock. Sea levels have since risen, covering the hole in water. 
Emily Hall is a scientist. She works at the Mote Marine Laboratory, in Florida. This past summer, Hall led the first scientific mission to the Green Banana. Its findings will help us better understand sinkholes. “We’re learning about how unique they are,” Hall told TIME for Kids. 
Diving to Discover
The seawater in sinkholes is unusual. It’s richer in nutrients than the surrounding waters. Algae feed on these nutrients. Small fish feed on the algae. Larger fish feed on the small fish. Because of this diversity of life, Hall calls sinkholes “oases of the sea.” 
But there could be a problem. The nutrients might be causing red tide. This happens when algae grow out of control. Some species of algae release toxins that kill marine life. Hall says these algae species were found in the Green Banana. “Could there be a connection between red tide and nutrients in these holes?” she asks. “We hope to investigate in the future.”
Mission Challenges
Exploring the Green Banana isn’t easy. Only divers trained to swim below 130 feet can reach it. Jim Culter is one of these divers. “We tried to reduce the number of divers going in because [of the] risk,” he says.
Scientists will return to the sinkhole in May. It might have changed since their first visit. Culter is already gearing up for the dive. “No matter how many times you go down,” he says, “it can be quite dramatic.”
|||||Texas residents are still recovering from a winter storm that hit several states in mid-February. Extreme cold caused much of the state’s power grid to fail. “We were woefully unprepared for this kind of cold,” said Texas state representative Ron Reynolds.
Millions of Texans lost electricity for days as temperatures sank into the 20s. Frozen pipes meant no running water. At least 70 people died in the United States.
Texas gets much of its electricity from natural gas. That system isn’t built for such cold. Plus, the state’s electrical grid is not connected to the rest of the country. Other states’ grids are. Oklahoma and Louisiana were also hit by the storm. But their problems were less severe. Their power systems are part of larger grids.
White House climate adviser Gina McCarthy called on Texas officials to create a plan for future storms. “It is going to happen,” she says. “And we need to be . . . resilient and working together as much as possible.”
Stop and Think! Why is last month’s storm in Texas still newsworthy? What lessons can be learned from what happened there?
|||||There are many historic buildings and monuments in Washington, D.C. Learn about some of them on this map. 
1. This is The White House. The president and his or her family live here. It is where the president works. 
2. This is the United States Capitol building. It is where Congress meets. 
3. This is The Washington Monument. It is more than 550 feet tall. It was the tallest structure in the world when it was built in 1884.
4. This is The Lincoln Memorial. It is a monument in honor of President Abraham Lincoln. He was our nation’s 16th president.  
5. This is The Jefferson Memorial. It is a monument in honor of Thomas Jefferson. He was our nation’s third president. 
|||||Creator
Creator is a burger restaurant. But the food isn’t made by a cook flipping patties over a stove. Place an order at Creator and you can watch your burger being prepared—from the slicing of the bun to the melting of the cheese—by an elegant robot system in the dining room. Because the restaurant’s human employees aren’t busy in the kitchen, they’re able to chat about flavor pairings and explain the automated process that brings you your food. Meanwhile, the robots perfectly prep and assemble your meal. —Constance Gibbs 

PBJ.LA
These aren’t your grandmother’s peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches. PBJ.LA gives America’s classic lunch-box staple an innovative upgrade. Carefully curated combinations of nut butter and jam are served on circular bread. Then a crimper seals the sandwich and removes the crust. Don’t worry—all that excess crust doesn’t go to waste. It’s used to make cinnamon-and-sugar bites. All ingredients are plant-based, and nut butters, jams, and milks are made from scratch, with organic ingredients. “We’ve taken a popular American nostalgic idea, and we’ve made it global and cultural,” says cofounder Payvand Salehi. “We wanted to take PB&J back to its roots and make it clean and organic.” —Rebecca Katzman

Saint Pierre 
Chef Emmanuel Stroobant believes fine dining shouldn’t be just for adults. Kids should enjoy the experience too. That’s why he offers a children’s menu at his restaurant Saint Pierre. In 2019, Saint Pierre was awarded two Michelin stars. A Michelin star is one of the most important honors in the world of gourmet food. The restaurant specializes in French cuisine with Asian-inspired touches. The children’s menu includes the same range of tastes—salty, sweet, sour, and bitter—that many grown-up menus offer. To keep the children’s menu fresh, Stroobant changes it every three to four months. And kids can even see how the chefs prepare their unique dishes. “All young guests at Saint Pierre are invited to pop into the kitchen,” Stroobant says. —Rebecca Mordechai

SafeHouse Milwaukee
Looking to sharpen your secret-agent skills? Spy-themed restaurant SafeHouse is the place to go. Since 1966, young spies in training have been visiting its Milwaukee location to learn the tricks of the trade. Junior agents begin their mission by cracking a password and entering the restaurant through a secret bookcase. Inside, they watch magicians and illusionists perform tricks, decode giant puzzles, and search for clues that can help them on a scavenger hunt. To complete their mission, spies rely on a phone booth to receive instructions for using an escape route. —Constance Gibbs

The Kinderkookkafé 
A child in Amsterdam doesn’t need to wait to grow up to realize his or her dream of becoming a chef. At the Kinderkookkafé, kids take charge of the restaurant. They set up the tables, cook the meals, and serve the food. There’s culinary fun for kids ages 2 to 12. With their parents’ help, the youngest visitors can put together their own desserts and pizzas. Older kids may choose to host a dinner party (imagine cooking a three-course meal for your birthday-party guests). Or they can have “high tea” with plenty of cakes, scones, and finger sandwiches to go around. —Allison Singer

Correction: The original version of this story misstated the location of Creator. It is in San Francisco, California, not Los Angeles, California.

|||||Margarita Engle is a poet. She writes picture books, too. She grew up in Los Angeles, California. Every summer, her parents would take her to Cuba. That’s the country where her mother was born. 
In Cuba, Engle explored the tropical forest. You can see her love of nature and Cuba in many of her books. 
Engle tells her stories through poems. When you listen to them, you might feel like you are skipping along or dancing to a drum. You might hear a rhyme. One of her recent books is The Flying Girl. It’s a true story. It’s about the first woman to fly a motorized airplane.

“I want to write something that leaves me with a hopeful feeling,” Engle says. “Poetry allows me to do that.”
|||||Martin Luther King Jr. Day falls on the third Monday of January each year. It’s a day to remember and honor the great Civil Rights leader. On this day, many Americans volunteer at shelters, schools, hospitals, and other community organizations to honor King’s legacy of service and commitment.
You can learn about King and the Civil Rights Movement by reading the TIME for Kids articles below.
TFK Library: Martin Luther King Jr. Martin Luther King Jr. is considered one of history’s greatest activists. His leadership helped end segregation during the civil rights movement.
Remembering the March TFK looks back at the 1963 March on Washington and Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech.
Dream Big Readers share the issues and causes that they believe in.

|||||On April 9, a volcano called La Soufrière erupted on Saint Vincent. Thousands of people on the island in the Caribbean Sea were forced to evacuate their homes. The massive explosion sent hot ash 32,000 feet into the sky. For days, the volcano continued to erupt, spewing ash and rock fragments. 
"It's destroying everything in its path," Erouscilla Joseph says. She's director of the Seismic Research Centre at the University of the West Indies. "More explosions could occur," she says, adding that it's impossible to know whether they'd be bigger or smaller than what the island has seen so far.
Government-run shelters and empty cruise ships have taken in some evacuees. Others have fled to nearby islands to get out of harm's way. 
More than 30 islands make up the country of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Ralph Gonsalves is its prime minister. He says people should stay calm and continue to protect themselves against the coronavirus.
La Soufrière began showing signs of activity in December. Until then, it had been inactive for decades. It last erupted in 1979. Elford Lewis, a farmer who evacuated his home on April 11, remembers the last big eruption. "This one is more serious," he says. 
Stop and Think! What information does the author provide in the first paragraph of the article? How do the details in the rest of the article help you understand that information?
|||||A frog goes through four stages of life. It changes and grows at each stage.
Frogs lay eggs. That’s where new frogs come from. The eggs hatch in one to three weeks.
Then a tadpole hatches from an egg. A tadpole lives in water. It uses gills to breathe. It has no legs.
Next, a tadpole grows into a froglet. A froglet looks more like a frog. It has legs for hopping and walking. It has lungs for breathing air. 
An adult frog doesn’t have a tail. A female lays eggs.
The Life Cycle
Look at this chart. It shows a frog’s life cycle. You can see how a frog grows. All types of frogs have the same life cycle.

|||||Movies, TV shows, and even Greek myths portray dolphins as helpful, playful creatures. “The world loves a good dolphin story,” Blake Morton, a scientist who studies animal behavior, told TIME for Kids. “And I think one reason for that is we see a lot of ourselves mirrored in their behavior.” 
Morton used scientific methods to test his theory objectively. The result of this work is a new report confirming that humans and dolphins share certain personality traits. The report was published in January, in the Journal of Comparative Psychology. 
The study involved 134 bottlenose dolphins at facilities in eight countries and territories. Each dolphin was observed and rated by several people, using a “dolphin personality questionnaire.” The questionnaire consisted of more than 40 items. It included adjectives such as stubborn, playful, and intelligent. Staff members gave every dolphin a score from 1 to 5 for each item, based on how well it described the animal’s behavior. From these ratings, Morton and his team were able to spot personality traits that are common in dolphins.
The results show that dolphins and humans have some similar personality traits. Most notably, the two species share traits related to curiosity and sociability.
The Big Picture
Morton’s dolphin study and others like it help us learn about other species. But they also help us learn about ourselves. “My kind of work stems from the spirit of trying to understand what made humans the way we are,” Morton says. “One way we can do that is to compare our behavior to the rest of the animal kingdom.”
Scientists around the world are researching different animal species, from apes in Africa to reptiles in North America. They’re trying to determine what makes humans different from other animals. They also want to know what makes us the same. Their research raises important questions that future scientists will work to answer.
It’s all a big puzzle, Morton says: “It takes thousands of careful papers being published before you start to see the puzzle coming together.” He compares scientific research to pointillism. That’s a painting style in which an artist makes a picture using lots of tiny dots. “If you take a step back and look at all those little single points of work,” Morton says, “you’ll see a big picture come into view.”
|||||Some schools make students wear uniforms. Other schools let kids pick what they want to wear. Here, two TFK Kid Reporters weigh in on the school uniform debate.  
Tyler Mitroff, 10
Bethesda, Maryland
School uniforms are a great idea! In a school without uniforms, some students might wear expensive clothes. Kids who can’t get nicer clothes might be judged by their appearance. But uniforms help make kids feel equal. They’re also good for school spirit. With uniforms, all kids can feel like a part of the community.

Nora Wilson-Hartgrove, 9
Durham, North Carolina
School uniforms should not be required. They take away a kid’s creativity. Many schools already have dress codes to make sure kids wear the right kind of clothing. And some schools with uniforms make girls wear skirts. Skirts can be very uncomfortable. Enough with the uniforms! Let kids learn to make their own choices about what to wear. 
|||||On April 9, a volcano called La Soufrière erupted on Saint Vincent. The island is in the Caribbean Sea. Thousands of people there were forced to leave their homes. The explosion was massive. It sent hot ash 32,000 feet into the sky. The volcano continued to erupt for days.  
"It's destroying everything in its path," says Erouscilla Joseph. She's director of the Seismic Research Centre at the University of the West Indies. Joseph says there could be more explosions to come. It's hard to know whether they'd be bigger or smaller than what the island has seen so far, she says.
Government-run shelters and empty cruise ships have taken on people who left their homes. Other people have fled to nearby islands to get out of harm's way. 
La Soufrière began showing signs of activity in December. Until then, it had been inactive for decades. It last erupted in 1979. Elford Lewis fled his home on April 11. He remembers the eruption of 1979. "This one is more serious," he says.
Stop and Think! What information does the author provide in the first paragraph of the article? How do the details in the rest of the article help you understand that information?
|||||The United States Food and Drug Administration has authorized another vaccine to prevent COVID-19. This one, made by Johnson & Johnson, is different from previous vaccines. It requires one shot instead of two.
This is the third vaccine to be offered in the U.S. A study done across three continents has shown it to be 85% effective at preventing severe COVID-19 cases. It is 66% effective against moderate cases. Johnson & Johnson expects to deliver 20 million doses to the U.S. in March.
Dr. Francis Collins is the director of the National Institutes of Health. He says it doesn’t matter which vaccine people get. “The most important thing we can do right now is to get . . . shots in as many arms as we can,” he says.
|||||In August 2018, Greta Thunberg skipped school. She sat outside one of Sweden’s main government buildings with a sign. It read “School Strike for Climate,” in Swedish. Greta was protesting. She was speaking out for the future of the planet. And she was doing it alone. 
The next day, one person joined Greta in her strike. “That was a big step, from one to two,” Greta told TIME. Then a few more joined her. Then came hundreds of people. Then came thousands. The young activist had sparked a movement (see “Wave of Change”). 
Greta first learned about climate change in elementary school. She saw a video that showed extreme weather and flooding. Her teacher explained that these were because of climate change. This made Greta worried.
 
Tens of thousands of people gather in Madrid, Spain. They are listening to Greta’s message.
Today, Greta is 17 years old. She gives speeches and meets with world leaders. She demands that people take action to protect Planet Earth. She has inspired millions of others to protest for the future of the planet.
In August 2019, Greta set out on a zero-emissions sail from the U.K. to the United States. Last September, she spoke to world leaders at the United Nations Climate Action Summit, in New York City. 
Here, Greta arrives in New York by boat. This is better for the environment than flying. Above, she speaks at the United Nations.
Greta asked the leaders to focus on science. Scientists have been warning about climate change for many years. Greta is angry that people in power have not taken action. “How dare you?” she said in her speech. 
Greta has inspired millions of people to speak out. There have been climate marches in countries all over the world. People carry signs. They wave flags. They raise their voices in chants. People do this to raise awareness about climate change. What actions can you take to help the environment?
|||||The United States has reached a milestone in the effort to end the coronavirus pandemic. As of April 18, about 130 million adults had gotten at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine. That’s half of all adults in the country. This data comes from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Of the 130 million, 84 million are fully vaccinated, with two shots of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine, or one of Johnson & Johnson. At this rate, the U.S. could vaccinate 70% of its population by mid-June. Experts say at least 70% must be immune before the virus is under control.
There’s still work to be done. The latest Associated Press-NORC poll found that 25% of U.S. adults are unwilling to get vaccinated. Meanwhile, the U.S. was averaging 67,000 new COVID-19 cases a day. Last month, it was 54,000 a day.
But overall, the number of people willing to get vaccinated has been rising. And more people are becoming eligible. As of April 19, anyone 16 or older can get a vaccine. Earlier in the month, Pfizer requested authorization to make children 12 to 15 eligible for its vaccine. That could happen by the fall.
“We’re making tremendous progress,” President Joe Biden said on April 18. “But we’re still in [a] race against this virus, and we need to vaccinate tens of millions more Americans.”
Stop and Think! What information does the photo provide? How does the photo support the information in the article?
|||||Different countries and cultures have different dances. These dances have spread around the world. Here are a few of them. Use the map to find the countries—and continents—where the dances began. 
Break Dancing
This dance is full of energy. Break dancing began in the United States. Dancers move fast. They spin on their hands or on their head.
Irish Dancing

This step dance comes from Ireland. Dancers hop, skip, and shuffle their feet. They keep their upper bodies still while they dance. Let’s jig!
Flamenco 
Flamenco comes from Spain. Dancers move to the sound of a guitar. They stomp their feet and clap. Some click an instrument called a castanet while dancing.
Dragon Dance
This group dance comes from China. It is performed at celebrations. Dancers carry a big dragon puppet. The dragon is said to bring good luck.
Indian Dancing

This type of dance comes from India. There are many different styles. This dancer is doing a classical Indian dance. It uses poses and gestures. The movements tell a story. 
|||||
Butterflies and moths look similar. But they are very different. Butterflies and moths come in different colors and sizes. Compare the two insects. Can you spot the differences?
 
Butterfly
A butterfly has brightly colored wings. Its body is narrow and smooth. A butterfly has two thin antennas. Most butterflies come out in the day. 

Moth
Most moths have dull-colored wings. Their bodies are wide and fuzzy. A moth has two feathery antennas. Most moths come out at night.
|||||Have you ever said “Whoa!” as you watched a hawk soar through the sky or an athlete sink a basket? If so, you’ve experienced awe. It’s a strong feeling of wonder and amazement.
Virginia Sturm is a psychologist and an associate professor at the University of California, San Francisco. “Awe is a positive emotion,” she told TIME for Kids. “When we feel it, we feel smaller in relation to the world around us.” Often, people feel awe in nature.
Recently, Sturm led a study about awe. The goal was to see if it’s possible for people to feel more awe by taking “awe walks.”
Scientists divided adult volunteers into two groups. Both groups were asked to take a weekly 15-minute outdoor walk. They were instructed to pay attention to their surroundings and to take a few selfies.
People in one of the groups got additional instructions, Sturm says. They were asked “to try to tap into a childlike sense of wonder . . . and to try to see the world with fresh eyes.”
Participants responded to daily questions about their mood. They also sent in their selfies. After eight weeks, researchers found that people in the awe-walk group felt more upbeat and happy than those in the other group. The faces in their selfies were small and the surroundings large. The findings were published last fall in the journal Emotion.
Awe Walks for Kids
Sturm says awe walks can be good for children, too. “Kids might even benefit more,” she says, “because they experience awe and wonder and curiosity, I think, much more easily than most adults.”
Awe walks aren’t hard. “You don’t have to go somewhere new or take a big trip,” Sturm says. “It could be really quite simple, like noticing new flowers in your backyard or a bird nest on your street.”
Maryam Abdullah is a psychologist at the Greater Good Science Center, in Berkeley, California. She says awe walks can be especially helpful during the pandemic, when people might be feeling disconnected from others. “Awe is one of those emotions that helps us transcend ourselves [and] understand our connection to something much bigger,” she says. “That’s a healthy feeling for young people to experience.”
Sturm agrees. “Moments of awe can be brief,” she says. “But the accumulation of these little moments matters to our well-being and helps us feel happier during these times of isolation and stress.”
|||||In the United States, a candidate needs to win at least 270 out of 538 electoral college votes to become president. As of November 5, the Democratic candidate, Joe Biden, had 264 electoral votes. The states Biden won are blue on this map. President Donald Trump, the Republican candidate, had 214. The states Trump won are shown in red. At press time, five states had not yet reported a winner. These states appear in gray on the map. To learn more about the electoral college and how it works, read “By the Numbers,” at timeforkids.com.
This story appears in the November 13, 2020, print edition of TIME for Kids. It was published online on the afternoon of November 5. It has not been updated.
|||||A drone is a type of aircraft. Some drones are tiny. Others are the size of an airplane. But drones are very different from airplanes. For one thing, they don’t carry people. Here’s the scoop on drones. 
Drones have propellers. The propellers are like blades on a fan. They turn quickly. This lifts the drone up into the air. Zoom! 

Drones can be flown by computers. They can also be flown by a person on the ground with a remote control. 

Some drones fly high and far. They take off and land vertically. They can get to places that are hard to reach. 

Drones can take pictures. They can also shoot videos. They can give us a bird’s-eye view of our world. 
Drones can put on a show. They can light up and form an image in the sky. The image on the cover of this issue was made using lots of drones. What a sight! 
|||||Together, President-Elect Joe Biden and Vice President-Elect Kamala Harris have been named TIME’s 2020 Person of the Year. The news was announced on December 10.
“TIME has always had a special connection to the presidency,” says Edward Felsenthal. He is TIME’s editor in chief. “This is the first time we’ve also named a vice president as Person of the Year.” Harris’s election is historic. She will be the first woman vice president.  

TIME also announced distinctions in four other categories. Guardian of the Year went to two groups. One was frontline health workers. They were recognized for their work protecting people against COVID-19 and caring for those affected by it. The other group was racial-justice organizers. Businessperson of the Year is Eric Yuan. He is the founder of Zoom. Entertainer of the Year is K-pop group BTS. Athlete of the Year is LeBron James. Artwork for the TIME cover of James is by 14-year-old Tyler Gordon, a TIME Kid of the Year finalist.

TIME readers also made their person-of-the-year pick. In a poll, they chose essential workers, including doctors, delivery people, and grocery-store employees.

Stop and Think! Why does TIME pick a Person of the Year? Why does it also have a readers’ poll? Are you surprised that the results of the two are different? Explain.

|||||Meet Daniel Botelho. He grew up near a beach in Brazil. As a boy, he loved diving and taking pictures of turtles. Now Botelho is an underwater photographer. He takes pictures of marine life for publications in the U.S. and other countries. 
“I want to show the world all kinds of beautiful fish and animals,” he told TIME for Kids. Here, Botelho talks about four of his photographs.
Date: August 2015 Location: Gansbaai, South Africa Species: Great white shark
 Botelho enjoys swimming with great white sharks. But on this trip, he took pictures from the boat. 
“I observed that they were on the hunt that day,” he says. “I needed to respect the sharks’ comfort zone.
Date: July 2016 Location: Rio de Janeiro, Brazil Species: Portuguese man-of-war
When Botelho saw this Portuguese man-of-war near his home, he ran to grab his camera. But he forgot one thing: gloves. The creature stung his hand. “I was so happy to take the photo,” he says. “I didn’t really care that I got stung.”
Date: June 2010 Location: San Diego, California Species: Ocean sunfish
It is rare to see an ocean sunfish. The fish spends most of its time in deep waters. It is one of the heaviest bony fishes in the world. It is also shy. So Botelho was surprised when one followed him for an hour. “It was one of the best interactions of my life,” he says. 
Date: June 2015 Location: Mdumbi, South Africa Species: Common dolphin
Sardines gather in what is called a bait ball. They form a mass. Sometimes, it protects them. But a dolphin can trap them. It releases bubbles from its blowhole. The bubbles create a net for the sardines. “It was amazing to see,” Botelho says.
|||||Sharks are at the top of the ocean food chain. The great white shark is one of the deadliest and most powerful. It is a predator. It eats other animals, such as sea lions, seals, and dolphins. Here’s how a great white hunts for food.
Sniffing Out Dinner
A great white shark has a sharp sense of smell. It can sniff out a group of seals from two miles away. 
Quick Swimmers
A big tail helps this shark move quickly through the water. The shark moves its tail from side to side.  
A Powerful Bite
A great white shark can have 300 teeth. Sharp teeth and strong jaws help the shark capture prey. Chomp! 
Surprise, Surprise
Great white sharks surprise their prey. First, they sneak up. Then they attack! 
Did You Know?
It is dangerous to swim with sharks up close. That is why  photographers and marine biologists study sharks from cages.
|||||Clinton Lexa loves to play video games. But doing so hasn’t always been easy. Lexa was born with a disability. It affects a person’s hands, which means Lexa usually does tasks and activities, such as playing video games, left-handed. “I taught myself,” Lexa told TIME for Kids. “There was no guide.”
Today, Lexa is a professional gamer with nearly 20,000 followers on the Twitch streaming platform. Lexa is one of many people working to make video games more accessible. Developers are helping, by creating games with settings and modes that increase accessibility. And companies and organizations are designing special controllers so people with disabilities can play.
Games for All
When not gaming, Lexa works as an accessibility consultant. This means giving feedback to developers about making video games accessible to people with disabilities. 
One project is a difficult adventure game called Celeste. It has an “assist” mode that allows players to modify the game’s settings. Lexa suggested an update to the mode’s introduction so more people would feel encouraged to use the mode. The result is challenging while being “more inclusive,” Lexa says. “Everyone does have different needs.”
Can I Play That? is a website that reviews video games. It’s run by Courtney Craven. According to Craven, games are changing thanks to the efforts of accessibility advocates like Lexa. Craven hopes that one day, developers will be so focused on accessibility that advocates won’t be needed: “We want to not have to exist.”
Getting Connected
Mark Barlet is the founder of the AbleGamers Charity, which works to make gaming more inclusive. He says people with disabilities can sometimes feel alone or isolated. “Social isolation is a pandemic,” Barlet says. “Video games are this shared experience that allows us to build friendships.”
AbleGamers creates these shared experiences. It helps people with disabilities find and build controllers that enable them to play. “Our mission is about combating social isolation,” Barlet says. Tools such as the Xbox Adaptive Controller, which AbleGamers helped design, make this possible.
Craig Kaufman is senior director of community and inclusion at AbleGamers. “We basically had to make sure that the industry was paying attention and focused on including players with disabilities,” he says. “Because for the longest time, most people didn’t.”
|||||Our nation’s capital is full of landmarks. They honor important Americans. They also tell the story of our country’s history. Here are a few famous landmarks. Which one would you like to visit?
Martin Luther King Jr. fought for equal rights. This memorial honors him.
The Lincoln Memorial is a monument honoring Abraham Lincoln, the 16th U.S. president.
Visitors pay tribute to fallen U.S. soldiers at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial.
The Washington Monument honors George Washington, our first president.
|||||On Earth Day, people all around the world help the planet. But you can help the planet anytime. Recycling is an important way to do this. Do you recycle? Read on to learn more about it. 
What Can I Recycle?
Paper can be recycled. So can metal, plastic, and glass. Give those a rinse first.
Keep It Separated
Put each material into a different bin. This will help recycling centers sort it all out later on.
Here Comes the Truck 
A recycling truck will come to take your materials away. Now they’re headed to a recycling center. 
Sorted Out
The materials will be sorted. They might be compressed, or crushed. They are on their way to becoming something new. 
Try It!
Use items in a new way without recycling them. Try making a plastic bottle into an instrument. Plant seeds in an old egg carton.
|||||Meet Daniel Botelho. He is a photographer. He takes pictures of underwater animals. Botelho spoke to TIME for Kids about his work.
This is a GREAT WHITE SHARK. Botelho took this photo from the safety of a boat. Why? The sharks were hunting. “I needed to respect the sharks,” he says. 

It is rare to see OCEAN SUNFISH. They are shy. They live in deep water. This one came up to swim with Botelho. Botelho says it was one of the best moments of his life.  
SARDINES are small. Swimming in groups gives them protection. But a DOLPHIN can still trap them. “It was amazing to see,” says Botelho.
|||||TFK Kid Reporter Abby Rogers spoke with Kelly Marie Tran, who plays Raya in the new animated Disney movie Raya and the Last Dragon. Catch the movie on Disney+ beginning March 5.
1. Can you tell me about Raya and the Last Dragon?
It’s a movie about friendship and learning how to trust. There are a lot of incredible characters, including Raya. 
2. How do you feel your character, Raya, changes what it means to be a Disney princess?
People are going to see a lot of things they don’t expect from a Disney princess. Raya is a fighter, and there are a lot of action sequences in this movie that I think people are going to get really amped by. It’s really cool to see her and the martial arts that she is a master at. 
 3. What was your favorite part of acting in this movie?
My favorite part was getting to open the door to that world. I am such a huge fan of Disney animated movies, and to be part of one feels crazy to me. I would love to think that maybe one day my kids will watch this movie. So that’s really cool.
4. Why is representation important in movies?
It is really important to see yourself in stories. An entire team of people went to Southeast Asia to study the specifics of the cultures there. They were able to bring back all of this incredible knowledge. All of that is seen in the movie. We see foods from that part of the world. We see clothes that are inspired by the fabrics that are used in that part of the world. With this movie, Disney has done an incredible job of making sure that the representation of that part of the world is accurate and true.
5. What do you hope people take away from this movie?
I hope that people will take away that the more we can get rid of our biases about what we think a certain type of person is like, the more we can work together toward a common good—and the better the world will be. That’s the message.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
|||||Each year, TIME for Kids picks the coolest and most helpful new inventions. Kid of the Year Gitanjali Rao, 15, is an inventor. This year, we let her take the lead. Gitanjali selected these items from TIME’s list of the 100 Best Inventions of 2020. Read what she has to say below.
Our generation is seeing problems that have never existed before, in addition to serious long-standing issues. We need to innovate, generate new ideas, and build on them in order to have a meaningful impact on the future. We want a sustainable world. Young people will play a significant role in getting us there. So let’s change the old ways. I hope the inventions on this list will inspire you to come up with solutions of your own. —By Gitanjali Rao
Ultimate Indoor Garden
Eating a salad is more satisfying when you harvest the greens yourself. Want to grow a garden but don’t have a backyard? Consider a Gardyn. This vertical indoor-growing system is powered by artificial intelligence. It lets you choose from 32 plants, including fruits, vegetables, greens, herbs, and flowers that will appear right in your home. Load the seedpods into Gardyn. Then an app monitors variables. These include light and humidity. Cameras let you know when your crops are ready to harvest. —By Marjorie Korn
Following the Conversation
Robotics might be the answer to making virtual classes feel more human. The Meeting Owl Pro is a 360° tabletop camera. It shifts its lens and microphone to whoever is speaking. In “hybrid” classes and meetings, virtual participants will have a better feel for what’s happening in the room. “It’s able to follow the conversation,” says Owl Labs cofounder Max Makeev. To date, Owl Labs products are used by more than 50,000 companies and universities, as well as K–12 schools across the United States. —By Jesse Will
Portable Purifier
“When people want clean water, they reach for plastic bottles,” says CrazyCap CEO Rakesh Guduru. For those who want a more sustainable way to hydrate on the go, Guduru created a bottle cap. It uses cleansing UVC light to sanitize water in just 60 seconds. The device has two settings. One purifies water from taps or public fountains. The other purifies water from streams and ponds—perfect for hikers and campers. The cap is rechargeable and­ ­compatible with many reusable bottles. —By Simmone Shah
High-Tech Tutor
Robots have always fascinated Van Robotics CEO Laura Boccanfuso. But she felt most were too expensive and technical for real-life use. So she developed ABii. It’s a robot tutor that helps kids learn math and reading. Many students are learning from home because of the coronavirus pandemic. “Schools more than ever need individualized learning help,” Boccanfuso says. ABii comes with lessons created by teachers. It uses a camera to detect changes in a student’s attention. Then it adjusts its approach for individual learners. —By Nadia Suleman
Taking Notes
In 2013, Magnus Wanberg noticed his colleagues taking notes on paper instead of on laptops and phones. “Why hasn’t anyone replaced paper with technology?” he wondered. This led him to make the reMarkable paper tablet. The note-taking device converts handwriting into digital text. Released in 2016, its thin design mimics paper. Now, Wanberg has made the reMarkable 2. At less than a quarter-inch thick, the device is 30% skinnier than the original. Its battery can go two weeks per charge. —By Mariah Espada
Robofriend
This friendly robot is designed to boost empathy and social skills. It’s for kids ages 5 to 10. Moxie was created by experts in education and child development. Between them, they have worked on the TV show Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood, for Pixar, and for the Jim Henson Company. In Moxie, you’ll find a compassionate pal who encourages reading and drawing. The robot sends kids on missions, such as writing kind notes to family members or talking about feelings with a friend. —By Marjorie Korn
Helpful Headset
AlterEgo, designed by researchers at the MIT Media Lab, seems to read your mind! The headset lets you communicate with a computer without touching a keyboard or speaking. To do a task, such as search for a weather forecast, ask the question to yourself, silently. The headset’s sensors read signals from your face. Then, using a web connection, the device does the task on your laptop. Researchers found that a prototype could understand its user 92% of the time. —By Jason Cipriani
Smaller Compact Car
Do your parents get frustrated looking for a parking spot in a busy area? City Transformer’s electric vehicle could be the solution. The Israeli company’s two-seater car is tiny. But it can reach 55 miles per hour. Even better? When traveling at slower speeds, the vehicle can pull its wheels in closer for a one-meter (about one yard) width. This helps it fit into narrow streets and snug spots. City Transformer expects the first vehicles to be on the road in Tel Aviv, Israel, by 2022. —By Patrick Lucas Austin
Handwashing Station
Handwashing is one of the best ways to prevent the spread of viruses. But about 40% of the world’s population lacks running water and soap at home. That’s why Japan’s LIXIL has created the SATO Tap. It’s a portable, refillable handwashing station with a soap holder. The gadget is expected to go on sale in early 2021, for between $3 and $6. LIXIL is working to get 500,000 units to households around the world in the next year. —By Ciara Nugent
More-Inclusive Gaming
About 46 million gamers in the U.S. live with a disability. For some, standard controllers, mouses, and keyboards are challenging to use. In 2018, Microsoft introduced its Xbox Adaptive Controller. It has ports where you can plug in aids, such as a foot pedal. Now Microsoft has partnered with Logitech to make the Adaptive Gaming Kit. For $99, players get 10 buttons, two triggers, hooks, pads, loops, and other gear to customize their controllers. One reviewer described the kit as “honestly revolutionary.” —By Matthew Gault
Better Smartphone
More than 50 million tons of electronic waste is created each year. Much of it includes materials that were unethically sourced. (For example, the gold found in circuit boards is often mined under dangerous conditions.) But Fairphone makes phones using responsibly sourced materials. And they’re built to last. Made of up to 40% recycled plastic, the new Fairphone 3+ has an expected life span of five years. It also has replaceable parts. You can swap your battery, screen, or camera with a screwdriver. This encourages users to keep their devices longer. —By Patrick Lucas Austin
|||||Kamala Harris has made history. She’s the first woman and the first person of color to be elected vice president of the United States. Harris isn’t the only person breaking barriers in the 2020 election. A diverse group of leaders was elected to Congress by the highest number of voters in U.S. history. Here are a few examples of why this election is one for the record books.
Historic Firsts
Michelle Steel and Marilyn Strickland: Steel and Strickland are the first Korean-American women elected to Congress. Steel will represent California. Strickland will represent Washington State
Cori Bush: Bush is the first Black woman to represent Missouri in Congress.
Deb Haaland, Yvette Herrell, and Teresa Leger Fernandez: Haaland, Herrell, and Leger Fernandez will represent New Mexico. It is the first state to elect only women of color to the House of Representatives.
Mondaire Jones and Ritchie Torres: Jones and Torres are the first openly gay Black men in Congress. Both will represent New York.
Record-Breaking Numbers
6 Native members—five Native Americans and one Native Hawaiian—were elected to the House of Representatives.
138 women will serve in the 117th Congress, as of press time. This includes 104 Democrats and 34 Republicans.
160 million is about how many people voted in the 2020 election. This is more than two-thirds of the country’s eligible voters.
Fun Fact
Major will be the first shelter dog to live in the White House. He’ll have Joe Biden’s other German shepherd, Champ, to keep him company.
This story appears in the November 20, 2020, print edition of TIME for Kids. It was published online on the morning of November 13. It has not been updated.
|||||Jacqueline Woodson’s latest picture book is The Day You Begin. TIME for Kids talked with her about her work.
Question: When did you become a writer?
Answer: I started writing when I was 7 years old. My first book was a collection of poems about butterflies.
Q: Where did you get the idea for The Day You Begin?
A: The story was based on my great-great-grandfather. He was the only black student in his classroom. It is about the way we can walk into a room and feel like we don’t belong there.
Q: Where do you write down your ideas?

A: I used to write on my hand! But now there is always a notebook nearby.
Q: Why do you like writing books for children?

A: I have always written for children because I think kids are important, thoughtful, and smart.
Woodson is the National Ambassador for Young People’s Literature. She received the honor in 2018 from Carla Hayden, Librarian of Congress. 
|||||AV1 is a classroom robot. It was built to help students who are sick. The robot takes a student’s place in class. Users control it with a smartphone. 
Makayla Nunn is a student in the United Kingdom. She uses AV1. That’s because she has a rare illness that makes her tired. The feeling doesn’t go away with sleep or rest. Her doctor told her to spend just three hours at school each day. This makes it hard to stay on top of her schoolwork. And Makayla misses her friends. “I would love to see them more,” she told TIME for Kids. 
Students work on an assignment. Another student is participating from home using AV1.
With AV1, Makayla is able to stay connected. She uses AV1’s camera to see her classroom. She can “raise her hand” by tapping a button. That makes a light flash on AV1’s head. Makayla also talks to her classmates and teachers through AV1’s speakers. And she can push buttons to make the robot’s glowing eyes look happy or sad. 
|||||Gray wolves have roamed North America for at least half a million years. Their habitat once included most of the continental United States. But during the 1800s and early 1900s, wolves were hunted to near extinction. By the 1960s, the U.S. wolf population was limited to a handful of creatures.  

Then, in 1973, the Endangered Species Act (ESA) became law. It protects animals that are at risk of becoming extinct. Gray wolves were placed on the endangered-species list. Killing them was illegal. And the U.S. government worked to support wolf conservation. A famous example of this effort began in 1995. Thirty-one wolves were moved from Canada to Yellowstone National Park. By 2015, more than 500 gray wolves were living in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem. 
FREE TO ROAM A wolf is released at Yellowstone National Park in January 1996. The wolf was relocated from Canada as part of conservation efforts.

Today, the continental U.S. is home to more than 6,000 gray wolves. On January 4, 2021, the U.S. government removed gray wolves from the endangered-species list. Usually, an animal’s delisting would be cause for celebration. But some say the predators still need protection. 

A Difference of Opinion
“Wolves are controversial,” Adrian Treves told TIME for Kids. He’s a wolf expert at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. “People can’t agree about their protected status or whether they’re actually safe and secure.” 

In some parts of the country, wolves are doing well. But overall, they occupy much less land than before. Wolves used to live across most of the U.S. Now they’re in fewer than a dozen states. 
PLAYFUL PACK Wolves play in a snowy Montana forest. Thick fur keeps the animals warm.
 
Experts disagree about the goal of the ESA. Some say the law should protect an animal until it has reclaimed its original area. Others argue that as long as a species is not at risk of extinction, it doesn’t belong on the endangered-species list.

David Bernhardt was secretary of the interior in October 2020. That’s when the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announced its plan to delist the gray wolf. According to Bernhardt, the wolf “is neither a threatened nor [an] endangered species.” 
FIERCE PREDATOR A wolf threatens a pack of bison in Yellowstone National Park. Wolves hunt and kill bison for food.

But Jason Rylander, of Defenders of Wildlife, disagrees. He worries that the wolf population will drop again: “We have to ask, ‘Is the work of recovery really done for this species?’ In our view, it’s not. There are still too many places where the population hasn’t come back.”
 
PUPS GROW UP These gray wolves are pups. Adults can weigh 100 pounds. The animals live in groups called packs.
What’s Next

Environmental groups are suing the government over its decision to remove the gray wolf from the endangered-species list. Rylander hopes that no matter what, people and wolves can live together peacefully. His group is finding ways to make that happen. These include portable wire fences to keep wolves away from livestock. 

For now, protection of nearly all wolves is up to the states. In November 2020, Colorado passed a law that would protect the wolves within its borders. 
Gray Wolf Facts
The gray wolf is a fierce predator. It has long teeth and powerful jaws. It can chase prey at more than 35 miles per hour. A typical male weighs about 100 pounds. It’s more than six feet long. (That includes its bushy tail, which is one or two feet long.) 
Wolves live in packs of up to 30 adults and pups. They communicate with one another using facial expressions and the positions of their bodies and tails. Howling helps members of a pack stay in touch.
|||||Slimy? Scaly? How would you describe the animals below? Read on to learn about their skin.
Snakes shed their skin. This happens as the reptiles grow. Sometimes, a snake’s skin will come off in one piece. There is a fresh layer of skin underneath. 
Some animals have skin that changes color. A chameleon changes color to blend in with its surroundings. This helps the reptile hide from predators. 
Some animals have poisonous skin. It protects them from predators. This is a poison dart frog. The amphibian lives in the rain forest. Its skin can be deadly. 
|||||
What is sound? Sound is created when an object vibrates. The vibrations travel in waves. Sound waves reach our ears. The ears send a message to the brain. That’s how we hear different sounds! A sound can be loud or quiet. It can have a high pitch or a low pitch. Here are a few different sounds.  
A drum can make a low-pitched rumbling sound. Thump thump! 


Some birds make a high-pitched chirping sound. Tweet tweet! 

A bee makes a quiet buzzing sound. Bzzzzz!   
This alarm clock makes a loud ringing sound. Brrring! 
|||||One day, the pandemic will be history. How will you remember it? 
Museums are deciding that now. Many are collecting items. They are looking for ordinary things. These include hand sanitizer and grocery lists. Historians will one day study these items. They’ll learn how we experienced the pandemic.
Maria Hagstrup’s photos document pandemic life. This photo shows a family celebrating a birthday at a nursing home in Denmark.
 
Picture This
The Autry Museum of the American West is in Los Angeles, California. In April 2020, it put out a call. It asked for face masks and family recipes. It also asked for stories. 
Brighid Pulskamp donated face masks. She has made hundreds of them. She made them for the people of the Navajo Nation. The tribe lives in Utah, Arizona, and New Mexico. “Our people are resilient,” Pulskamp told TIME for Kids. She wants us to remember how the Navajo handled the pandemic.
Brighid Pulskamp’s masks are inspired by Navajo culture. They are part of the collection of the Autry Museum of the American West.
 
 
The Vesthimmerlands Museum is in Denmark. Maria Hagstrup is its curator. She has been taking photographs. Some show empty streets. Others show people. Some are standing apart. Some are separated by a window. 
Museums are now collecting mostly photographs. They will gather other items when it’s safe. These might include medical equipment and handwashing signs.
This photo of two sisters was submitted to the International Center of Photography’s pandemic art project.
 
Museums are counting on us. They want us to share our everyday things. Aaron Bryant is a curator. He works at the National Museum of African American History and Culture. It’s in Washington, D.C. “History is made by ordinary people and their everyday lives,” Bryant says. He thinks that ordinary things “can reflect history in an important way."
Children thank healthcare workers with artwork in this photo from the New-York Historical Society.
 
What’s Your Story?
How has your life changed during the pandemic? Historians want to know. How are you spending your time? What challenges do you face? What brings you joy?
Check the historical societies in your area. Check museums, too. They usually have websites. Maybe you can submit your story. Maybe you can submit pictures. You could take pictures of objects related to the pandemic. These could be art projects. They could even be grocery lists.
|||||
Paleontologists are people who hunt for fossils. They want to learn about the past. They dig up dinosaur bones all over the world. Have you heard of these creatures?
United States — Tyrannosaurus Rex
Many T. rex bones have been dug up in Montana.
United Kingdom — Iguanodon
An iguanodon fossil was first found here, in 1825. Scientists still find these dinos’ footprints here.
China — Sinosauropteryx
The discovery of this dinosaur taught us that dinos may have had feathers!
Australia 
— Titanosaur
 
A titanosaur skeleton was found here. Scientists gave it a nickname: Wade!
Morocco — Spinosaurus
This dinosaur was first found in Morocco. It lived near water. It was a good swimmer.
Argentina — Argentinosaurus
This dino was first found in Argentina, in 1987. Can you guess how it got its name?
|||||Halloween is probably going to look different this year. That’s because of the coronavirus pandemic. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has safety tips for the holiday.
Traditional Halloween activities can put people at risk, according to the CDC. They can spread the virus. Safer options include a virtual costume contest. Indoor activities should only be done with members of your household. These might include a home scavenger hunt. For outdoor activities, like pumpkin picking, people should stay six feet apart.
The CDC says costume masks are not a substitute for regular face masks. If you wear only a costume mask, it should cover your mouth and nose. And it should be made of at least two layers of breathable cloth.
|||||Who’ll become the Kid of the Year? The answer will be revealed December 4 on an hour-long TV special on Nickelodeon. Read about Za’nia Stinson, one of the top 20 finalists, below.
When Za’nia was a baby, she lived in a homeless shelter with her grandmother. At 9, she gave money to a family asking for help outside a supermarket in her hometown of Charlotte, North Carolina. She realized she wanted to do more for people in need. So she started the Z Feeds Angel Food Project with her church. 
She collected donations of food and toiletries from supermarkets, doctors’ offices, and shops, and gave them out in “go-go” bags. She took bags to the shelter where she had lived. “Everyone was so excited,” says Za’nia, now 13. During the pandemic, she has been packing go-go bags for people affected by closings of schools and shelters. 
This story was updated on November 20, 2020, to reflect a change to air date and network.
|||||Apollo Mission Control Center at NASA’s Johnson Space Center
Astronauts get all the glory, but true STEM geeks know the people at mission control are superstars, too. Don’t believe us? Take a tour of the Apollo Mission Control Center. In 1985, the room was designated a National Historic Landmark. Work began in 2017 to restore it to perfect condition. And now you can visit to experience the magic of the Apollo missions firsthand. Learn about the engineers, flight controllers, and scientists who worked behind the scenes to make the moon landing a reality. The team at the center hosts events every day of the year, for kids as young as 4. “You can be a part of the mission at any age,” education manager James Wigfall says. —Allison Singer

Biblo Tøyen
Libraries are special places where kids can read, learn, and create. Deichman Biblo Tøyen is one of the coolest of them all. This striking library for children ages 10 to 15 was designed to inspire. With many colorful exhibits and surprises, each section offers visitors an interactive experience. For those who have come just to cuddle up with a good book, there are plenty of comfy spots to do so. Grab a seat in a pillow-packed wheelbarrow, a vintage pickup truck, or a repurposed ski lift. Or plop down into a simple chair or cushion. The best part? This library is just for kids—no adults allowed! —Allison Singer

Children’s Museum of Indianapolis
There are many children’s museums, but none are quite as amazing—or as expansive—as the Children’s Museum of Indianapolis. After all, it’s the largest children’s museum in the world. Here, kids can learn about dinosaurs, ancient Greece, outer-space artifacts, and much more. In 2018, the museum opened the Riley Children’s Health Sports Legends Experience. It’s a 7.5-acre space where kids can play while learning about the history and culture of sports. Experts are on hand to coach young athletes. They can help them use their newfound skills in football, basketball, hockey, golf, car racing, and other sports. Kids can also sculpt their own sports figures or record a TV-ready sports broadcast. —Rebecca Katzman

Farm Wisconsin Discovery Center
Where did your breakfast come from? There’s a good chance at least some of it originated in Wisconsin. The state is one of America’s top producers of milk and cheese. Since it opened in 2018, Farm Wisconsin Discovery Center has helped visitors understand and appreciate the food on their tables. Its special ingredient is a partnership with nearby Grotegut Dairy Farm, which bridges the gap between museum and real-world dairy operation. Visitors can take a bus tour of the farm to see it in action. And when any of Grotegut’s 2,500 cows is ready to have a baby, it is brought to Farm Wisconsin’s birthing center. There, the animal has its newborn in a safe, clean environment—and visitors are able to watch it all. There’s no guarantee a birth will happen during your visit, but the odds are pretty good. In Farm Wisconsin’s first year, more than 250 calves were born. —Shay Maunz

ImagiNations Activity Center at the Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian
What do suspension bridges, rubber, and chocolate have in common? Their early histories all go back to the Native people of North and South America. At the ImagiNations Activity Center, visitors can learn about these innovations and many others. The center is part of the Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian. Visitors can sit inside a full-sized Comanche tepee or learn how to build an igloo. They can also explore methods of transportation that were pioneered by Native people, such as snowshoes and skateboards. “This space is a great place to come and be introduced to Native culture,” says Adrienne L. Smith. She’s the center’s manager, and a member of the Muscogee (Creek) and Cherokee Nations of Oklahoma. Smith says visitors can learn about the past, “but also look at how we’re continuing our culture today.” —Karena Phan

La Brea Tar Pits
Did you know that people can discover fossils in a major city? Head to the La Brea Tar Pits to see an active dig site in the heart of Los Angeles. The tar pits were formed thousands of years ago, from natural sticky asphalt. The asphalt trapped animals, plants, and insects during the Ice Age. Scientists and researchers have been excavating for more than a hundred years. Artifacts are still being found there, including fossils from dire wolves and saber-toothed cats. Anyone can visit the tar pits, learn about the discoveries made there, and watch paleontologists at work finding and studying fossils. —Karena Phan

Louisville Slugger Museum & Factory 
The first thing you’ll notice at the Louisville Slugger Museum & Factory is the Big Bat. It’s a 120-foot-tall steel replica of a bat used by Babe Ruth. Step inside the museum to find the Big Glove, a climbable work of art carved from 450-million-year-old Kentucky limestone. Other hands-on experiences include a batting cage and a chance to pose with actual bats used by star players, including Derek Jeter. Not a baseball fan? “No worries, we’ve got you covered,” executive director Anne Jewell says. She recommends the factory tour. “You walk right through the heart of our production line.” —Jaime Joyce

Moat Brae
“Moat Brae is a very special place,” says Catherine Colwell, who works in programming at the town house. J.M. Barrie, author of Peter Pan, agreed. During his childhood in the 1870s, Barrie played pirate-adventure games in the garden and woods surrounding the property. Decades later, these games inspired him as he wrote his classic story. In 2019, Moat Brae reopened as Scotland’s National Centre for Children’s Literature and Storytelling. Kids can run through the building’s enchanted gardens, enjoy the Lost Boys’ tree house, and board a full-scale pirate ship. Indoors, they can search for hidden messages scattered around the house or look for Peter Pan’s shadow. “It gives anyone, no matter their age, the freedom to explore their own imagination,” Colwell says. —Ellen Nam

National Butterfly Center
The National Butterfly Center is a dream come true for butterfly lovers. Picture more than 200 species flying free across 100 acres of gardens, woodlands, and nature trails. Butterflies are drawn to the property by nectar plants. The plants produce the sweet syrup that butterflies rely on for food. Some of the insects, such as the ruby-spotted swallowtail, are found almost exclusively in this part of the U.S. Others, like the world-famous monarch, are just migrating through. Texas is located between the main breeding ground for monarchs, in the northern U.S., and the warmer climate of Mexico, where they spend their winters. —Allison Singer

Notre-Dame Cathedral
Notre-Dame is one of the world’s most famous landmarks. When a fire tore through the Roman Catholic cathedral on April 15, 2019, people around the globe came together to raise money for its restoration. “The cathedral is more than the building itself,” says Michel Picaud, head of the charity Friends of Notre-Dame de Paris. “It’s a part of the worldwide culture.” Even while it’s under repair, Notre-Dame is worth seeing. It’s one of the finest examples of Gothic architecture ever constructed. Think towering arches, creepy gargoyles, flying buttresses, and beautiful stained-glass windows. The cathedral is also home to countless historical artifacts and works of art. —Rebecca Katzman

Statue of Liberty Museum
What does liberty mean? Find out at the Statue of Liberty Museum, which opened in May. Kids can learn the rich history of this 133-year-old structure, including what the iconic statue represents to the country and the world. Take interactive tours, explore smaller statues made from Legos and other materials, and even climb a replica of Lady Liberty’s feet. The museum is also home to the original torch and numerous artifacts. “Many people have a special connection to the statue,” Liberty Island park ranger Bryanna Plog says. “She is the symbol of many things, such as liberty and freedom.” —Ellen Nam

U.S. Space & Rocket Center 
Want to learn what it’s like to travel into space? The U.S. Space & Rocket Center takes you as close as you can get without leaving Earth’s atmosphere. Visitors get a taste of astronaut life through flight simulation experiences, such as the G-Force Accelerator and a rocket-launch simulator. As the home of Space Camp, the Aviation Challenge, and Robotics Camp, the center is also a training ground for budding astronauts. Outside the museum stands the world’s only full-scale display of a Space Transportation System: a massive space shuttle, complete with rocket boosters. —Rebecca Katzman

Washington Monument
At the western end of the National Mall, the Washington Monument towers over our country’s capital. The 555-foot obelisk—a four-sided stone pillar with a pyramid-shaped top—was built to honor the first U.S. president, George Washington. For most of the last eight years, visitors have only been able to view it from afar. It has been closed to the public. But in September, the monument reopened with an upgraded elevator system. Back in 1886, when the public was first allowed inside, guests had to climb nearly 900 steps to the top. Today, the 500,000 or so yearly visitors can take a 70-second ride to the observation deck.“It’s still a thrill to go up there and see these iconic national memorials in the distance,” says National Parks Service spokesman Mike Litterst. Those who make the trip can spot the White House; the Lincoln, Jefferson, and Martin Luther King Jr. Memorials; and the U.S. Capitol. “It’s the highest point in the city,” Litterst says. “It gives you an unobstructed view of American history.” —Brian S. McGrath

Woodland Park Zoo
The Woodland Park Zoo is a leader among immersive wildlife exhibits. Visitors can stroll African grassland as lions warm themselves on the rocks. Or they can wander through a humid tropical rain forest under the watchful eyes of gorillas. The zoo is home to more than 1,100 animals and 300 species. All of them inhabit areas that carefully recreate their natural ecosystems. Dave Wilke is the zoo’s facilities director. He hopes that visitors gain an appreciation for the variety of life that shares our planet. “Visiting the zoo is an opportunity to have a firsthand experience with something significantly different and bigger than us,” he says. —Brian S. McGrath

|||||Imagine you’re part of an experiment. There are two groups. Members of the first group get $10 to spend as they wish. Members of the second group also get $10. But they must use it to help others. Which group would you rather be part of? Which would make you happier?
Researchers at Kindlab study the results of experiments like this. Kindlab is part of a group called Kindness.org. The Kindlab team is interested in the effect that helping others has on the person doing the helping.   
Kindlab’s goal is to use scientific data to spread good deeds around the world. Oliver Curry is a research director at Kindlab. “The more we understand why people are kind, the better we’ll be able to . . . make the world a kinder place,” Curry told TIME for Kids. 
MAKING CONNECTIONS At a TEDx Talk in 2019, Kindlab research director Oliver Curry uses scientific data to explain the benefits of kindness.
Gathering Data
In 2018, Kindlab published a report called “Happy to Help?” The group analyzed 27 experiments by other researchers. The experiments compared how people felt when they helped others with how they felt when they didn’t. “What we found when we aggregated the results is that helping does make you happy,” Curry says.
SPARKING JOY In 2019, Kindness.org researchers randomly stopped people who were walking together in Brooklyn, New York. They asked the people, including those pictured above, to compliment each other. This exercise sparked connection and joy.
Anyone can help with the work Kindlab is doing. How? By becoming a volunteer scientist. Volunteers gather data for research projects. Kindlab has more than 400 volunteer scientists in 45 countries. Jaclyn Lindsey is Kindness.org’s chief executive and cofounder. “We’re committed to putting out content and programs that are credible,” she says. Studying data helps the group make sure it can do that. 
Volunteer scientists helped Kindlab and Harvard University on a project. The project evaluated the costs—in terms of money, time, and effort—of a kind act. Then it looked at how much the act would benefit others. Volunteers filled out surveys to rate the cost and benefits of good deeds. Researchers analyzed the data. This helped them determine which deeds were most cost-effective (see “Good Deeds”). 
Kindlab will use the data to create a database. It will be the first database of recommended acts of kindness. It will help people make informed choices about their kind actions.
Engaging Students 
Kindness.org is also working to spread empathy in classrooms. This year, the group launched a program called Learn Kind in 741 classrooms worldwide. It encourages students to take a scientific approach to kindness. “We’re giving students a few ideas of kind acts to try and asking them to report back on the experience,” Curry says. 
KIND CLASSMATES Bradley Evans, a counselor at a school in Houston, Texas, leads students in a virtual Learn Kind lesson.
Kushagra Kumar, 9, is from Houston, Texas. He has enjoyed being part of Learn Kind. For one activity, he was asked to find out whether quarantine would limit kindness. But he found that quarantine gave him more chances to help others. “I sent video messages to my grandma telling her that I love her,” Kushagra says. How did he feel after the call? “Happy!” 
PUTTING IN THE WORK Kushagra Kumar, 9, completes a Learn Kind assignment.
Good Deeds
In May, Kindness.org published a report. It listed the most cost-effective acts of kindness during a pandemic. These actions can be taken while social-distancing or in quarantine. Volunteer scientists helped the group put the report together. They rated how much effort goes into a specific act. They also rated how beneficial the act is. The list shown here is from Kindness.org. It features the top-five easiest and most effective acts of kindness.
Say thank you to someone who made your meal possible.
Cover your mouth when you cough.
Be on time for video calls.
Tell the people you love how you feel about them.
Video call your parents or grandparents.
Correction: A previous version of this story incorrectly noted that the Learn Kind curriculum is in more than 450 schools worldwide. It is in 741 classrooms worldwide.
|||||The United States Food and Drug Administration has authorized another vaccine to prevent COVID-19. This one is made by Johnson & Johnson. It’s different from previous vaccines. It requires only one shot instead of two.
This is the third vaccine to be offered in the U.S. A study done across three continents has shown it to be 85% effective at preventing severe COVID-19 cases. It’s 66% effective against moderate cases. Johnson & Johnson expects to deliver 20 million doses to the U.S. in March.
Dr. Francis Collins is the director of the National Institutes of Health. He says it doesn’t matter which vaccine people get. “The most important thing we can do right now is to get . . . shots in as many arms as we can,” he says.
|||||Shiver me timbers! The Story Pirates think kids have great ideas. The group uses these ideas to create shows, books, and podcasts. Read on to learn more about the Story Pirates’ work. 
Think Big
The Story Pirates visit schools. They help kids make up stories. Then they perform the stories in front of students. 
From Page to Stage
The Story Pirates are known for their live shows. The shows are funny. They are full of energy. 
Podcast Power
There is a Story Pirates podcast. That is a show you can listen to on a phone or computer. Story Pirates tell stories and play songs. 
Stories by Kids, for Kids 
The Story Pirates create books. The idea for Digging Up Danger came from Phoebe Wolinetz. She is 9 years old.
Try It!
Dream up your own story. Who are the main characters? Where does it take place? Swap stories with a classmate. Act out each other’s tales. 
|||||Meet Kristie Reddick (above, left) and Jessica Honaker. They are bug scientists. Together, they are known as the Bug Chicks. The two make videos and write books about insects and spiders. 
The Bug Chicks go all over the world. Reddick went to Kenya, in Africa. There, she discovered a camel spider that was new to scientists. She found out it was new by looking at the hairs on its legs.

Some people are scared of bugs. Are you one of them? If so, the Bug Chicks have a tip to share. “Most bugs are harmless,” Reddick told TIME for Kids. “If you are afraid of a bug, learn about it!”
A previous version of this article misidentified the creature Kristie Reddick found. It is a camel spider, which is a type of arachnid. 
|||||Two old rivals are back at it in Tom & Jerry: The Movie. The film is a reboot of a classic cartoon. This version mixes animation with live-action footage. 
The film follows Tom, an alley cat, and Jerry, a mischievous mouse, as they chase, trick, and trap each other. Their antics are funny and sometimes destructive. 
When the movie begins, Jerry is enjoying a luxurious life hiding out in one of New York’s City’s swankiest hotels. He runs into Kayla (Chloë Grace Moretz), who works as an event planner there. She clashes with a coworker (Michael Peña), helps out a bride (Pallavi Sharda), and tries to avoid the wrath of Chef Jackie (Ken Jeong). 
But what’s top of mind for Kayla? She’s focused on making sure Jerry doesn’t ruin the wedding of the century, which is about to take place at the hotel. To get rid of the cunning mouse, she hires the perfect mousehunter: Tom. 
HOTEL CHASE Tom (left) is hired to catch Jerry before the mouse causes any more damage at a fancy hotel.
At first, Tom and Jerry fight only each other. But as time goes on, they also battle the groom’s dog, Spike, and the bride’s cat, Toots. Soon, Tom and Jerry are forced to team up to face a common enemy. They do this to save Kayla’s job, the wedding, and the hotel. But can a cat and mouse really get along? 
Viewers will laugh as the two brawl like siblings and wreak havoc. I love the Rube Goldberg device that Tom builds to trap Jerry, and the theme about honesty. A diverse cast makes the film relatable, too.
I rate this movie an 8 out of 10. I like this new take, in which Tom and Jerry are frenemies. And I enjoyed the contrast between animation and live action. Another reason to watch? It’ll give you some tips for catching your misbehaving siblings! 
Tom & Jerry is now streaming on HBO Max. 
|||||Boots is a company in the United Kingdom. Its stores sell health and beauty products. In September 2020, Boots began a program that rewards customers for recycling empty product packaging. Participants get points to use toward store purchases. In the program’s first few months, Boots recycled more than a ton of plastic. 
Should governments give rewards for recycling too? Some say people shouldn’t need a reward to keep the planet clean. Others say any initiative that encourages people to recycle is helpful. We asked TIME for Kids readers to weigh in. Here’s what four of them said.
Conor Maples, 11
Wheaton, Illinois
People should be rewarded for recycling. San Francisco, California, has a program that rewards recycling. San Francisco has one of the highest recycling rates in the United States. Meanwhile, Chicago, Illinois, doesn’t enforce recycling laws enough, and it has one of the lowest recycling rates in the country. By rewarding recycling, many cities would be cleaner.  
Ruhi Patel, 9
Trumbull, Connecticut
Even though people don’t recycle enough, those who do know that the reward is having a cleaner environment for future generations. What can be more rewarding than this? Rewards will only encourage people to buy more disposable items rather than take the right steps to reduce the amount they’re producing in the first place. 
Elizabeth Card, 10
Queens, New York
If people get rewarded, they will recycle more. A good example of this is deposit-return schemes, which pay back a small amount of money when customers recycle an item. According to the United Kingdom’s Environmental Audit Committee, countries with deposit-return schemes have a much higher rate of recycling than other countries.
Andrew Horan, 9
Pelham, New York
People shouldn’t be rewarded for recycling. They should recycle anyway because the world has a lot of waste. Recycling is just a part of being a good citizen of Planet Earth. Do people need a reward for throwing garbage in the trash? No. It’s just the right thing to do. The same goes for recycling. It should be a part of everyday life now.
The Next Debate! Should summer reading be mandatory? Email your opinion to tfkeditors@time.com by May 5. Your response might appear in an upcoming issue.  
|||||Daniel Holz is an astrophysicist. He works at the University of Chicago, in Illinois. He studies black holes. Holz spoke with TFK Kid Reporter Miguel Madero. 
TFK: What is a black hole?
HOLZ: A black hole is an area in space where gravity is so strong that nothing can escape it. Not even light. Say you’re near the surface of a black hole. Even if you went as fast as light, you wouldn’t be able to get away. 
TFK: Are there any black holes close to Earth?
HOLZ: No. We think there are lots of black holes in our Milky Way galaxy. But the nearest are hundreds of light-years away. That’s far. One light-year is 6 trillion miles.  
TFK: How do black holes form?
HOLZ: We think they are formed by the death of stars. Stars burn and glow. When they run out of fuel, they collapse. Some form black holes. 
TFK: What is one neat thing you have learned about black holes?
HOLZ: There are black holes of all sizes. Recently, we found one that was 85 times the mass of the sun. That’s like taking 85 of our suns and crunching them down into one black hole. That’s big! 
This interview has been edited for length and clarity. 
|||||One night before bed, Christine Carter was sitting with her daughter in her lap. They were making a list: “Three Good Things of the Day.” Her daughter, who was braiding Carter’s hair, said, “Mom, this is going to be one of my three good things.”
Making a list was their way of reflecting on things they were grateful for. It’s a technique based in an expanding field of research known as the science of happiness.
Carter is a sociologist at the University of California, Berkeley. She studies how schools and families can foster positive emotions and help kids lead healthier lives. This has become especially important during the coronavirus pandemic, with many kids feeling isolated. “Most kids don’t know this, but they’re grieving,” Carter told TIME for Kids. “They’ve missed out on important events. Many have lost people in their lives.”
Finding the positive doesn’t mean never being sad. It means understanding that feeling sad is natural, and that it passes more quickly if we can notice the good things in life. “This is really about mental health,” Carter says. “We can practice bringing happiness to ourselves. It’s like putting money in the bank. We can be ready to cope with hard times in the future.”
How to be Happy
A key step toward happiness is learning how to describe emotions, even negative ones. Feeling blue? It’s better to embrace the emotion than to ignore it. Ask yourself: “What do I feel? Where in my body am I feeling it? Does it have a color or shape?” 
Expressing gratitude is also important, Carter says. Let’s say you often bicker with a brother or sister. Reflect on why you’re grateful for that person. Remember the good times. This makes it likely you’ll get along better tomorrow.
But the surest way to happiness is kindness. Helping others gives life purpose, Carter says, because you are changing the world. Even more, “We feel a sense of connection and love,” she adds. “We are hardwired to feel better in community. Our nervous system feels safe when we’re connected with other people.”
Take Care
Here are some things you can do every day to be happier.
Take deep belly breaths.
Write down things you’re grateful for.
Talk with a friend.
Do something kind for someone.
Exercise, eat well, and get enough sleep.
|||||Many creatures migrate. They travel in big groups from one place to another. Some animals migrate when the weather changes. Others set off to find new sources of food and water. 
Lots of animal migrations take place in Africa. Here, you can read about three of them.  
As the seasons change, ZEBRAS travel in large groups. A big group of zebras is called a dazzle. Some dazzles migrate 300 miles. They make the trip year after year. Why do zebras go so far? They are looking for better grass to graze on. Hundreds of thousands of zebras make the journey together. That’s a lot of stripes. 
Here come the WILDEBEESTS. These African antelopes are always on the move. They travel by day and by night. Their journey can take them through rivers and streams. Wildebeests are good swimmers. But crossing the water is dangerous. Sometimes, wildebeests migrate alongside zebras. Both mammals munch on grass.
Bird migrations are common in Africa. Take FLAMINGOS, for example. These pink birds fly together in V formations. They head for Africa’s salt flats. A salt flat is a body of water that has dried up. During the rainy season, a salt flat becomes a wetland. It’s a great habitat for flamingos. They like to feast on tiny creatures, such as shrimp. Tasty!
|||||Sonic is a hedgehog. He’s blue, he’s furry, and he’s the fastest thing around. In the new movie Sonic the Hedgehog, he comes to Earth from another world. When he gets here, he must escape the evil Dr. Robotnik. Sonic makes friends with a human named Tom. Together, they set out to stop Dr. Robotnik from taking over the world. 
Ben Schwartz voices the role of Sonic. “This is a fun, fast character with a little bit of attitude,” he told TIME for Kids. Schwartz can relate to Sonic. “I’m kind of like him,” he says. “I can get excited by fun things as well.”
|||||Greta Thunberg is an activist. She lives in Sweden. Greta cares about protecting Planet Earth. She asks others to do their part to help the planet, too. Read on to learn more about the 17-year-old. 
Greta goes on strike. 
She has a sign. It is written in Swedish. It says “School Strike for Climate.” 

Greta meets with world leaders.
 
She gives speeches. She asks leaders to take action to protect the planet.
Greta speaks to crowds. 
Thousands of people come to hear what Greta has to say. They are inspired by her message. 

Greta travels across the ocean.
 
Flying is harmful to the planet. So Greta traveled to New York City by boat. This sent a message to the world. The choices we make affect the environment.  
Did You Know?
Greta started a movement. People all around the world are speaking out for the future of Planet Earth. Thank you, Greta! 
|||||Cactuses are plants. They live in the desert. They grow where it is hot and dry. Read on to learn more about cactuses.
Cactuses are special.
There are about 2,000 types of cactuses. They come in many shapes, sizes, and colors.
Cactuses are desert plants.
The desert is usually very dry. When it rains, cactuses store up water. That helps them survive.
Cactuses have spines.

Some spines are big. Some are small. All are sharp. Spines help protect the plant from predators.
Cactuses bloom.
They grow flowers. Some cactuses bloom for only a day. Others have flowers that open only at night. 
Did You Know?
Some types of cactus can be eaten. This is a prickly pear cactus. Its fruit is sweet. Its pads are eaten as a vegetable. Yum!
|||||Welcome to Egypt. The Pyramids of Giza have stood here for thousands of years. Each pyramid was built for a different pharaoh. Pharaohs were the rulers of ancient Egypt. The largest pyramid shown here is 455 feet tall. It is called the Great Pyramid of Giza. It is made of more than 2 million stones. 
A pyramid is a structure with four triangular sides. Long ago, Egyptians built giant pyramids as monuments to the pharaohs. The pyramids were also tombs for the pharaohs. They were designed to protect a pharaoh and his belongings after death.
|||||Annie Barrows is the author of Ivy + Bean Get to Work. Ivy and Bean are best friends. They attend a Career Fair at school. They learn about jobs adults can have. But the girls are interested in just one job: Treasure hunting! The two look for gold. But they can’t find it.
Ivy + Bean Get to Work is the final book in the Ivy + Bean series. Barrows hopes kids will feel good about themselves when reading her books. “If they get that and a laugh, I’ve done my job,” Barrows told TIME for Kids.
|||||Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, will join a national lights-out program. It is run by the National Audubon Society. Conservationists made the announcement on March 11. They are asking people to turn off lights between midnight and 6 a.m. The goal is to prevent birds from crashing into windows. Lights Out Philly will last from April 1 until May 31. 

Migrating birds use stars to navigate. But they can be confused by city lights. Up to a billion birds are killed each year in the United States by flying into structures such as buildings. 

Keith Russell is with the Audubon Society. He says climate change is a danger for hundreds of bird species. “Many of these species also face the additional threat of colliding with buildings,” he says.
|||||The moon’s Ocean of Storms is a vast, dry open space. It was once very busy. In 1967, the United States landed its Surveyor 3 spacecraft there. About two years later, the Apollo 12 crew arrived. The astronauts touched down near the Surveyor and collected more than 75 pounds of lunar rock and soil to bring back to Earth.
Since then, things have been quiet in the Ocean of Storms—until now. On December 1, China’s Chang’e 5 spacecraft landed in the area. With Chang’e 5’s successful return to Earth two weeks later, China became the first country to bring back rock and soil from the moon since 1976.
Geologists are eager to get a look at the lunar materials. Brad Jolliff is the director of the McDonnell Center for the Space Sciences at Washington University, in St. Louis, Missouri. In an email to the Associated Press, he said, “These samples will be a treasure trove!”
Chang’e 5 Mission
The Chang’e 5 mission is the fifth in a lunar winning streak for China. In 2007 and 2010, Chang’e 1 and Chang’e 2 orbited the moon. In 2013, Chang’e 3 landed on the moon and deployed a rover. And in 2019, Chang’e 4 did the same, becoming the first spacecraft to successfully land on the moon’s far side.
Chang’e 5 was a much harder mission. It involved a multistage spacecraft that didn’t just land on the moon but lifted off from it, too. Launched on November 23, 2020, the craft entered lunar orbit on November 28. One stage separated from the main body of the craft. It touched down on the moon on December 1. There, it collected 
4.4 pounds of lunar rocks and soil. It transferred them to another vehicle. That vehicle lifted off and rendezvoused with the orbiting portion of the spacecraft.
A reentry capsule brought the samples back to Earth. It thumped down in China’s Inner Mongolia region on December 16, completing the successful mission.
Thomas Zurbuchen, of NASA, tweeted his applause for the touchdown. “Congratulations to China on the successful landing of Chang’e 5,” he wrote. “This is no easy task.” Zurbuchen also expressed his hope that the lunar samples “could advance the international science community.”
China intends to embark on more lunar missions, including a crewed landing, perhaps by the early 2030s. The U.S. is planning its own crewed lunar landing by 2024.
|||||Anti-racism protests spread across the country this year. These protests haven’t just happened in the streets. Calls for change have come from many industries, including entertainment, technology, and professional sports.
Pro athletes have often spoken out against social injustice, even though it is risky for them to do so. This year, more athletes have taken a stand and encouraged others to use their voices—and their votes. Fans see athletes as heroes. Teams count on them to bring in billions of dollars. So when athletes speak, people listen. Here are three examples of how athletes are leading the way in 2020. 
Getting Out the Vote
Players from the Atlanta Falcons are urging people to vote in the 2020 election. The players say it’s crucial to elect lawmakers and other leaders who care about social justice. Before a game last month, Julio Jones and his teammates wore shirts quoting the late congressman John Lewis, an advocate for voting rights. The National Football League (NFL) has taken note. In August, it launched its own voting-education initiative. Several NFL teams will use their stadiums as voting sites.
Choosing Activism
On August 26, athletes from the NBA and WNBA staged a protest against racism by refusing to play. Natasha Cloud (left), of the Washington Mystics, wasn’t with her teammates. She had already opted out of the season to devote herself to social-justice causes. In June, Cloud and her friend Bradley Beal (center), of the Washington Wizards, led a march to celebrate Juneteenth, a holiday that honors the end of slavery in the United States. Here, they speak before the event. Cloud and Beal are active on social media. Like the Falcons, they’re asking people to vote.
Raising Her Voice
On September 12, tennis player Naomi Osaka won her second U.S. Open title in three years. But it wasn’t just her superb playing that made news. Osaka wore seven masks, one for each round of the tournament. Each named a Black victim of violence and racial injustice. Later, a reporter asked Osaka what message she wanted to send. She said, “The point is to make people start talking.”
|||||Service dogs are an important part of society. They are trained to help people with disabilities. Canine Companions for Independence trains service dogs. The group has been around since 1975. Since its founding, it has placed more than 6,200 service dogs with people in need. Which dog breeds are trained for the job? Labrador retrievers, golden retrievers, and crosses of these two breeds can do the work. Read the ages below. It shows the life of a Canine Companions service dog.
Age 0–2 
A service dog spends the first two years of its life being trained to help.
Age 2–10 
The average service dog works for eight years. It picks up items, opens doors, and more.
From age 10 on
 The dog retires from service. It spends its time as a pet
|||||How can you stop ice cream from melting? How should you talk to your dog? Guy Raz and Mindy Thomas explore answers to these questions and others. They are hosts of a science and technology podcast for kids called Wow in the World. It airs on National Public Radio. 
How do Raz and Thomas decide what topics to cover? “We follow our curiousity,” Raz told TFK. 
|||||Americans will vote for a president on November 3. Did you know that some animals vote too? Here’s how.
Honeybees

Honeybees look for a new home. How do they vote for one? They dance. The bees move to another place when they dance the same way.
Meerkats  
Meerkats search for food together. They can vote for the group to search faster. To do this, they let out a special sound. 
Rock ants

Rock ants vote for new places to live. If enough ants find the same spot, the others are taken there.
African wild dogs 
How do African wild dogs vote to hunt? By sneezing. The more the dogs sneeze, the more likely it is that they will hunt. Achoo!
|||||Matthew Walzer was born with cerebral palsy. The disability affects his walking, balance, and fine motor skills. “There were different things I had to do and use, to overcome [my challenges],” he told TIME for Kids.

By 16, Walzer was able to put on most of his clothes by himself. But he still was unable to tie his shoes. So in 2012, he wrote a letter to the shoe company Nike. He asked if Nike could make shoes that met his needs. The company consulted with Walzer, and now it will release the Nike Go FlyEase on March 19. These are sneakers that slip on hands-free.
According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, one in four adults lives with a disability. Although many say the fashion industry has been slow to make accessible clothing, people are working to change that.

Functional Fashion
Gabby Kim Leung is a high school teacher and the caretaker of her husband, Ben. He’s paralyzed from the waist down. Leung has had trouble finding clothing that works for her husband. “I was shopping for weeks, and realized that there was just nothing out there,” she says. “He feels like he’s wearing the same thing every day because we don’t have any options besides sweatpants and T-shirts.” 
Grace Jun is the chief executive officer at Open Style Lab, a nonprofit organization that educates people about more-inclusive clothing. She says many designers tell her it’s “too hard to make adaptive fashion. [But] that is not true.” According to Jun, there are simple ways to make clothing more accessible, such as changing button closures to Velcro straps or using stretchier materials.

Christina Mallon, the chief brand officer of Open Style Lab, is paralyzed in both arms. Mallon believes fashion is important for self-expression. “Not being able to express yourself is one of the hardest parts of being disabled,” she says. “It’s just so ignored.”
Though some brands have adaptive fashion lines, Walzer sees a need for more change. “We’ve made great strides since I was young,” he says. “But there’s still so much more work that needs to be done.” 
Walzer encourages those who feel left out to call for change, like he did when writing to Nike. “Don’t be afraid to speak up,” he says.
|||||Who’ll become the Kid of the Year? The answer will be revealed December 4 on an hour-long TV special on Nickelodeon. Read about Chloe Mei Espinosa, one of the top 20 finalists, below.
Seeing a video of a turtle with a plastic straw caught in its nose inspired Chloe Mei, 14, to take action. “It was like a wake-up call to me,” she says. So she started a campaign: Skip the Plastic Straw. Chloe Mei educates the public about the dangers of single-use plastic straws. She urges people to take a pledge to quit using them. She’s even persuaded many school districts, including her own, to remove plastic straws from their cafeterias. 
Chloe Mei’s interest in protecting the oceans and marine life comes, in part, from her love of scuba diving. “I want to keep the ocean clean and healthy for not only our generation,” she says, “but for many generations to come.”
This story was updated on November 20, 2020, to reflect a change to air date and network.
|||||Welcome to Bamfield. It’s a coastal village in British Columbia, Canada. Louis Druehl is steering The Kelp Express along the shore. For 51 years, the boat has taken him to Kelp Bay. There, ropes of seaweed grow beneath the water’s surface.
COASTAL VILLAGE Bamfield, in British Columbia, Canada, sits at the edge of the water.
Druehl, 84, is known as the Kelp Grandfather. He began farming kelp, a brown seaweed, in 1982. Since then, he’s studied it. He’s cooked it. He’s even written a book about it.
Over the years, Druehl has seen interest in seaweed rise and fall. But as climate change affects the planet, the world is turning to seaweed as a possible solution. “People have discovered seaweed,” he told TIME. “They’ve discovered us.”
KELP GRANDFATHER Louis Druehl, 84, is a kelp farmer in Bamfield, British Columbia.
Super Seaweed
Seaweed can play a huge role in fighting climate change. It is used to create natural fuel and renewable plastics. It helps marine ecosystems. And it absorbs carbon in the environment.
Some researchers say seaweed is a better climate-change solution than forests (see “Not Perfect”). Seaweed doesn’t need fertilizers, fresh water, or land. And it grows fast. Katie Lebling is with the World Resources Institute. “When we’re planting trees, we need to make sure it does not take away that land from food production,” she says. “That is not an issue with seaweed.”
DRIP DRY Rae Hopkins, Druehl’s cofounder at Canadian Kelp Resources, in Bamfield, hangs seaweed up to dry in 2019.
Seaweed could become a global food source. Many worry about the environmental impact of eating meat. Could seaweed provide protein for the world? Carlos Duarte, a professor of ecology, thinks so. “To feed the world population by 2050, in a way that doesn’t harm the environment, there is only one pathway,” he says. “Seaweed farming.”
New Opportunities
Global seaweed production has doubled in the past decade or so. Interest in seaweed as a food source and climate-change solution is booming. In British Columbia, this means job opportunities, including work for people from First Nations communities. They are among the indigenous, or native, people of Canada. Many have left the area to find work. “We want people to have a job, so that they can come home,” Larry Johnson says. He’s president of a group that works with First Nations communities.
For thousands of years, First Nations people have farmed on land and in the ocean. “Seaweed farming . . . helps us create economies of our own that align with our traditions,” Johnson says. “Our role has always been to connect with the land.”
UNDERWATER FOREST At a seaweed farm, long ropes of seaweed grow under the water’s surface.
A seaweed industry could bring jobs to many people, such as those who lost work in the pandemic. Druehl’s daughter is one. He wants her to come work in Kelp Bay. But even if she won’t, lots of people are waiting to learn from the Kelp Grandfather.
Not Perfect
Seaweed might fight climate change. But there are risks. If it isn’t harvested, it can rot and release carbon back into the water or air. Growing too much could also affect how much light reaches species living deeper in the water. That would be dangerous for underwater ecosystems.
Halley Froehlich works at the University of California, Santa Barbara. She says seaweed “can be a part of the solution” to climate change, but it’s not a perfect solution on its own.

|||||On April 10, 1912, the Titanic set sail on its first voyage. Many passengers were aboard the cruise ship. It was supposed to cross across the Atlantic Ocean. It set off from England to New York.
This photo shows passengers walking on the deck of the Titanic in 1912.
 
Four days later, the Titanic struck an iceberg. The ship flooded. It sank to the bottom of the sea. Some people got into lifeboats. But there were not enough lifeboats for everyone. Many people did not survive.

At the time, the Titanic was the biggest ship ever built. It was almost as long as three football fields. The ship took two years and many workers to construct. 
The Titanic had 10 decks and many sections for passengers. 
This picture shows the ship’s many decks, or floors. Each floor had a different purpose.
First-class passengers had fancy meals. The Titanic was also one of the first ships with electric lights in all of its rooms.
The Titanic sank more than 100 years ago. But scientists and historians still study the ship. They dive underwater and look at the shipwreck. What stories do you think they are piecing together? 
This is a painting of the Titanic sinking. It took about two and a half hours for the ship to go down.
Did You Know?
This was a lifeboat from the Titanic. The ship carried only 20 of them.
There are rules today that passenger ships must follow on long trips between countries. They must carry enough lifeboats for all passengers.
|||||You can write to us to share your thoughts and opinions on TIME for Kids articles. We recently received this letter from a reader in Connecticut.
 
With regard to your article “Exploring Mars” (March 26), it was interesting and amazing to learn that a rover has successfully landed on Mars to search for evidence of past microbial life. I congratulate the scientists, engineers, and mechanics who achieved this feat. I am really excited and can’t wait to see what the rover discovers. I am also amazed that the heat shield could withstand a temperature that reached 2,370°F because of atmospheric friction. 
I wonder how scientists were able to create all that technology. It must have taken years of study and research. And I wonder what it would be like to find out that the species we know on Earth (including us) aren’t the only ones to have inhabited this universe. I am eagerly waiting for more updates from the Red Planet! —Rudrh Nair, 9, in Stamford, Connecticut
What's on your mind? Write to us at tfkeditors@time.com.
|||||A 3-year-old Scottish deerhound named Claire won Best in Show at the 2020 National Dog Show, which aired on NBC on Thanksgiving Day. A judge said that Claire, shown here with handler Angela Lloyd, is “the picture of elegance.”
|||||Take a trip to Easton, Pennsylvania. It’s home to the Crayola factory! Crayola makes 13 million crayons every day. People and machines get the job done. Keep reading to learn how crayons are made. 
Crayons are made of wax and color. First, the wax must be heated. Then a worker adds a bag of colored powder. 
Next, the wax is poured into molds. This forms the crayons. They harden as they cool. A machine pushes them out of the mold. 
After that, the crayons are run through a labeling machine. Each label wraps around twice. This makes the crayons stronger. Workers inspect the crayons. Damaged crayons are set aside. 
Then workers pick up the crayons. They put them in a collator. 
The collator takes one crayon of each color. It puts them into boxes. Now boxes of crayons are ready to be sent to stores. Soon, kids will use the crayons.

|||||Joe Biden has won the 2020 presidential election. He is a former vice president of the United States. He will become the 46th U.S. president. 
Election Day was November 3. Four days later, the Associated Press made an announcement. Joe Biden had enough votes to win. 
Kamala Harris will be the vice president. She will be the first woman in the job. She will also be the first Black vice president. And she will be the first vice president of South Asian heritage. 
“America, I’m honored that you have chosen me to lead our great country,” Biden said on Twitter. He wrote this on Saturday. 
Counting the Votes
Many Americans voted in the election. More than 148 million votes have been counted. Biden got more than 75 million votes. President Donald Trump got more than 70 million. 
It takes time to count all the votes. Why? The pandemic changed the way people voted. Many voted early. Many voted early by mail. These mail-in votes took longer to count. 
Trump does not agree with the election results. He says he will challenge them. Trump says he does not trust the country’s mail-in voting system. But there is no evidence of a problem. 
|||||A large crowd of President Donald Trump’s supporters violently stormed the U.S. Capitol building in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday. Members of Congress were meeting to officially  confirm Joe Biden as the nation’s next president. This process is completed following every presidential election. It’s called certification. It’s usually uneventful. But Trump says that votes were counted that should not have been counted. There has been no evidence of widespread fraud. Courts have consistently rejected his claims. Yet Trump and many of his supporters believe that he won the election. 
Trump spoke at a rally near the White House on Wednesday morning. Tens of thousands of his supporters came to hear him speak. Trump repeated his false claim that the election was stolen from him. Then many of his supporters marched to Capitol Hill and up the steps of the Capitol. Videos show the mob pushing its way past Capitol Police and into the building. Members of Congress and Vice President Mike Pence were quickly moved to safety. The Capitol was locked down. Four people died in the attack. Many were injured, including 14 police officers. The situation is historic. The last time the Capitol was breached in this way was in 1814. 
On Wednesday, police and National Guard troops worked to get the situation under control. More than 50 people were arrested. Most of the crowd left the scene after local officials demanded that everyone clear the streets by 6 p.m. In a video message on Twitter, Trump asked  his supporters to go home. “You have to go home now,” he said. “We don’t want anybody hurt.” But he continued to claim that the election was unfair. He also continued to praise the crowd, telling his supporters, “We love you.”
Many world leaders spoke out against the violence. So did American leaders from both major political parties. They urged respect for America’s democratic processes and the peaceful transfer of power.
After the crowds were cleared and it was safe to reenter the Capitol, Congress got back to work. They completed the certification at around 4 a.m. and made Biden’s win official. He will be sworn in as president on January 20.
|||||Kara Winger is the United States women’s national record holder in the javelin. When the COVID-19 pandemic struck last year, Winger could no longer use indoor facilities for her training sessions. She needed to adjust. Winger and her husband threaded a 30-foot cable through a metal tube and then ran the cable from their back fence to the rear of their house. Winger tosses the tube to replicate throwing a javelin. The tube was once a part of a cupcake stand her husband built for their wedding. “Both were made with love,” Winger told TIME. 
TUBE TOSS Olympic javelin thrower Kara Winger trains in Colorado Springs, Colorado, in April 2020.
On March 24, 2020, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) postponed the Summer Olympics (see “History Lesson”). The decision was made “to safeguard the health of the athletes, everybody involved in the Olympic Games, and the international community,” the organization said, in a statement.
Now the rescheduled Summer Olympics are only five months away. They’re set to begin in Tokyo, Japan, in July. All over the world, athletes are finding creative ways to keep their bodies and minds sharp and ready. 
CANOE IN THE SKY Adam Burgess, a British slalom canoeist, trains at home in England.
Staying in Shape 
During extended lockdown periods, a wrestler from Norway did push-ups with his baby on his back. A pentathlete from Poland did squats while holding her dog. A climber from the U.S. crawled along her kitchen counter, scaled the back of her stairs, and traveled across her fireplace chimney, as if she were Spider-Woman.
COUCH CRUNCH Jordanian judo athlete Hadeel Alami uses her sofa to stay fit on April 9, 2020.
Double gold-medalist swimmer Lilly King joined a few teammates for socially distant laps in a Bloomington, Indiana, pond. “Once I saw a snapping turtle, I hightailed it out of there!” King says.
Some Olympic athletes have been able to return to indoor training spaces. Others will need to keep relying on their creativity. In certain areas, COVID-19 numbers are on the rise. 
U.S. fencer Daryl Homer trains in New York City. “We’re now going back to a [situation] where you don’t know if the gym is going to be open tomorrow,” he says.
OUTDOOR SESSION Gymnast Dilan Jiménez, from Colombia, practices on his roof on August 14, 2020.
Mental Wellness 
In May 2020, the IOC surveyed more than 3,000 athletes. Half said “keeping myself motivated” was a major challenge. Nearly a third said “managing my mental health” was difficult too. 
Olympic officials say the Tokyo Games will go on. So athletes continue to train. But after last year’s postponement, they know nothing is certain. “It’s tough,” says Angelica Delgado, a U.S. judo athlete. “But if I worried about every possible thing that could go wrong, I would never compete again.”
Perspective helps. “This is a pandemic that’s affecting everyone in the world,” says Matthew Centrowitz, a runner who won gold for the U.S. in 2016. “This is much bigger than us, much bigger than sport.”
SIGN OF THE GAMES On January 22, people take a photo with the Olympic rings in Tokyo, Japan.
Sean McCann is a senior sport psychologist for the U.S. Olympic & Paralympic Committee. He’s worried about athlete burnout. This can be caused by stress. “It’s been a long haul,” McCann says. “We’ve got to still keep doing the basics and taking care of ourselves physically, socially, emotionally.”
History Lesson
The IOC’s March 2020 announcement was historic. Never before had an Olympic Games been postponed to another year. However, Olympic Games have been canceled.
Cancellations were because of major global conflicts. The 1916 Olympic Games were canceled because of World War I. In those days, there was only one set of Olympic Games. In 1940 and 1944, the Winter and Summer Games were canceled because of World War II.
|||||Have you ever noticed a problem that you couldn’t figure out how to fix? Dr. Aboubacar Kampo has. He was living in Côte d’Ivoire. That’s a country in Africa. Plastic is a major problem there. Very little of it gets recycled. “How can we transform plastic into something useful?” Kampo wondered. 

Kampo works for UNICEF. That’s the United Nations Children’s Fund. He asked his friends for help. “We googled, looked for research, and then I stumbled across a company in Colombia,” he said. Colombia is a country in South America. 
New classrooms make for smaller class sizes in Côte d’Ivoire.
Conceptos Plásticos is the company that Kampo found online. It recycles plastic. It turns the plastic into big, Lego-like bricks. 
It uses them to build schools and homes for people in need. “Conceptos Plásticos gave us a solution,” Kampo says. It also gave him an idea. He thought the company could help with more than just the plastic problem. It could also improve access to education.
In Côte d’Ivoire, people collect and sell plastic trash to earn money for their families.
New Classrooms  

More than 1½ million children in Côte d’Ivoire don’t go to school. One reason? There aren’t enough classrooms. For kids who do go to school, classrooms are overcrowded. 
A woman sells plastic waste at the Conceptos Plásticos factory in Côte d’Ivoire. It will be recycled into plastic bricks.
In 2018, UNICEF built its first classrooms out of recycled plastic in Côte d’Ivoire. At press time, it had built 42 classroom there. It plans to build 528 by the end of 2021.
How do kids like the project? “They love it,” Kampo says. “When we build a classroom, we build it with the community.” 
UNICEF leaders learn to build with plastic bricks. A hammer is the only tool needed.
Making Space
Sophie Chavanel works for UNICEF. She remembers the first new classroom built from plastic in Côte d’Ivoire. Children gathered in the middle, “really tight, the same way they had before. The teacher said, ‘No! Now we have a big classroom. You can move! You can dance!’ It made a big difference in the quality of education.”

|||||On November 7, President-Elect Joe Biden and Vice President-Elect Kamala Harris celebrated their win, in Wilmington, Delaware. They will be sworn in on January 20, 2021. 
BIG NIGHT Harris and Biden share a stage with family, including spouses Doug Emhoff and Jill Biden.
They will take office at an important moment in United States history. Biden and Harris must confront the COVID-19 pandemic and work to bring together a deeply divided nation. In his speech on November 7, Biden said, "This is the time to heal in America." Read on to learn how their lives and careers prepared them to lead the country. 
A Life of Service
"I pledge to be a president who seeks not to divide but unify," Joe Biden said in his victory speech on November 7. It may be his biggest challenge in nearly 50 years of public service. 
Biden was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania, on November 20, 1942. When he was 10, his family moved to Delaware. Biden graduated from the University of Delaware and earned a law degree at Syracuse University, in New York. In 1972, he was elected as a U.S. senator for Delaware. 
A LOOK BACK Biden stands in front of the U.S. Capitol, in Washington, D.C., in August 1974. At the time, Biden was a U.S. senator representing Delaware.
A month after that election, Biden's wife and daughter were killed in a car accident. His sons, Hunter and Beau, were injured. Biden considered giving up his Senate seat. Instead, he was sworn in to the Senate from his son Beau's hospital room. 
In 1977, Biden married Jill Jacobs, a teacher. As senator, he focused on foreign policy and criminal justice. He was reelected six times. He served in the U.S. Senate for 36 years.  
HIGH HONOR Biden receives the Medal of Freedom from President Barack Obama in January 2017.
The 2020 presidential race was not Biden's first. He ran in 1988 and 2008. Neither campaign was successful. In 2008, Democratic presidential nominee Barack Obama selected Biden as his vice-presidential running mate. Once in office, Obama trusted Biden with many important tasks, including foreign relations. 
Biden has long been known as someone who can work with politicians from both political parties. On November 7, he promised to continue that effort as president. "I will work as hard for those who didn't vote for me as I will for those who did," he said. 
Breaking Barriers
Kamala Harris made history on November 7, becoming the first woman to be elected vice president of the United States. Harris will also be the first Black person and first person of South Asian descent to hold that office. 
In her victory speech, Harris credited the women who came before her. "Black women, Asian, white, Latina, Native American women, who throughout our nation's history . . . paved the way for this moment," she said. "I stand on their shoulders."
A LOOK BACK Harris gives her inaugural speech as attorney general of California in January 2015.
Harris was born in Oakland, California, on October 20, 1964. Her mother came to the U.S. from India and her father came from Jamaica. She attended Howard University, in Washington, D.C. 
Harris has been a trailblazer throughout her career. She entered public office in 2004, as district attorney of San Francisco, California. In 2011, she became the state's attorney general. She was the first woman and first Black person to hold either position. 
MEET THE PEOPLE Harris FaceTimes with a girl’s grandmother after a rally in Iowa in September 2019.
In 2016, Harris was elected as a U.S. senator for California. She became known for asking tough questions of government officials and Supreme Court nominees. In 2019, she ran for the Democratic presidential nomination. After Biden won the nomination, he asked Harris to be his running mate. 
"While I may be the first woman in this office, I will not be the last," Harris said on November 7. "Because every little girl watching tonight sees that this is a country of possibilities." 
|||||A 14-year-old from Frisco, Texas, has won the 2020 3M Young Scientist Challenge. On October 14, Anika Chebrolu was announced as America’s Top Young Scientist. Her research could lead to a treatment for COVID-19.
Anika found a molecule that can attach to a protein on the new coronavirus. This could stop the virus from entering a cell. Her discovery could increase a drug’s effectiveness in fighting the disease.
Anika says her original idea for the project focused on the flu. But the coronavirus pandemic changed her plans. As winner of the competition, Anika received $25,000 and a trip. “It’s exciting,” she told her local CBS News station. “I’m still trying to process everything.”
|||||A lot goes into making a magazine. Take a look at this page. First, the story was written by a writer. Then it was revised by an editor. The page was laid out by a designer. Here’s a sneak peek at how TFK is made. 


Welcome to TFK’s morning meeting. We get together every day. We share ideas about what to put in the magazine. We talk about what needs to be done. Our meetings keep us organized.  

Photos are an important part of a magazine. They help tell the story. We look at many photos and choose the best ones. Then TFK’s art department creates a layout. 

A writer reports the story. She does research. She asks questions. She talks to experts. Finally, she sits down to write. When the story is finished, she checks her work. 

An editor reads the writer’s story. She makes changes. She works with the writer to make the story clear and interesting to readers. 
Magazines have copy editors. They read all of the magazine’s copy, or text. They make sure there are no mistakes. This is Mike. He is one of TFK’s copy editors. 
|||||These four women have done their part to help the planet. They have inspired others to do the same. Which of these women inspires you?
Jane Goodall
Jane Goodall is a scientist. She is best known for studying chimpanzees in the wild. Goodall was one of the first women to do this kind of work. 
Wangari Maathai

Wangari Maathai started a group that plants trees across Africa. In 2004, she won a Nobel Peace Prize for her work helping women and the environment. 
Vandana Shiva 
Vandana Shiva is a scientist and environmental activist. She is from India. She works to protect farmland. She helps people grow better, healthier food. 
Sylvia Earle 
Sylvia Earle is an ocean scientist and explorer. She has spent more than 60 years working to protect the world’s oceans. She has led many underwater expeditions.
|||||
Anna Semon is an archaeologist. That’s a person who finds and studies artifacts. An artifact is an object made by people in the past. Ready to dig in? Join TIME for Kids on an artifact adventure!
1. Semon and her team look for a good place to dig. They dig for pieces of pottery, stone, and bone. These objects help an archaeologist learn how people lived in the past.
2. The archaeologists dig. They use shovels and other tools. They must be careful. The artifacts are old and can break easily. After the dig, the artifacts are sent to a lab.
3. Semon’s lab is at a museum in New York City. There, people sort the small artifacts. Semon brushes dirt from the bigger pieces.
4. Semon uses a microscope. She looks at pieces of pottery. She searches for clues. She asks questions. When was it made? Who made it?
5. Artifacts are added to the museum’s collection. The objects tell us about the people who used them. “Each little piece gives us a new idea,” she told TFK. “Every artifact has a story to tell.”
|||||The world is full of incredible elevators. Many of them use pulleys. Here are a few of TFK’s favorite elevators. 
The world’s fastest elevator is in Shanghai Tower, in China. It travels almost as fast as a cheetah can. Whoosh!
The Bailong Elevator is the tallest outdoor elevator on Earth. It is on the side of a cliff, in China. Would you want to ride in it?
The first sideways elevator is being tested in Germany. It can travel up and down, too! Some people say it is the elevator of the future. 
The Burj Khalifa is the world’s tallest building. It is in Dubai. This building’s elevators are the third-fastest in the world. 
|||||This is not an ordinary dress. It’s a mushroom dress! It was made by a designer. Her name is Aniela Hoitink. 
Hoitink made this dress using mycelium. That is the part of a mushroom that grows underground. Hoitink did not find the mycelium in a forest. She grew it in a lab. 

Other designers also make things using mycelium. Some say it could be the material of the future. 
|||||A new COVID-19 vaccine has been approved for the United Kingdom (U.K.). Several other countries have also approved the vaccine. It could help contain the spread of the disease worldwide. 
The vaccine was developed by the University of Oxford and the drug company AstraZeneca. It costs governments much less than other COVID-19 vaccines. It's also easier to transport and store. Other vaccines must be kept frozen. This one can be stored longer in a normal fridge. 
Helen Fletcher is a professor of immunology in London. She calls the vaccine's approval "a turning point for the pandemic." She says it was "developed to have global impact that includes people living in the . . . poorest regions of the world." 
The vaccine's makers hope to have enough for 20% of the world's population in 2021.
|||||A food chain shows how energy passes from one living thing to another. The great white shark is at the top of the ocean food chain. Read on to learn more. 
1.The Sun Light from the sun gives plants energy. 
2. Seaweed This plant soaks up sunlight.
3. Fish Some fish eat plants to live. The plants give the fish energy to move. 
4. Seal A seal is a carnivore. It eats the fish.
5. Great White Shark This predator is a quick and powerful hunter. It eats the seal. 
|||||This time line shows how trains have changed over time.
1829 
Robert Stephenson built the Rocket. It was a steam engine. It was built for a contest to show off the best engine. It reached 30 miles per hour. Many steam engines since have been modeled on the Rocket. 
1934 
The Burlington Zephyr was an early diesel-powered passenger train that was in service in America. It’s on display at Chicago’s Museum of Science and Industry.
1981 
The TGV is a high-speed train in France. It runs on electric power. It connects the country’s capital, Paris, with other cities there. The TGV set a world record in 2007 for fastest wheeled train. In a test run, it went 357 miles per hour. 

2006
In Asia, trains travel on the world’s highest railway. The Qinghai–Tibet railway reaches a maximum height of 16,640 feet. It’s hard to breathe at that height. Passengers are supplied with oxygen.
|||||Each year, TIME for Kids picks the coolest and most helpful new inventions. Kid of the Year Gitanjali Rao, 15, is an inventor. Gitanjali selected these items from TIME’s list of the 100 Best Inventions of 2020. Read what she has to say below.
Our generation is seeing problems that have never existed before, in addition to serious long-standing issues. We need to innovate. We need to generate new ideas and build on them to have a meaningful impact on the future. We want a sustainable world. Young people will play a significant role in getting us there. So let’s change the old ways. I hope the inventions on this list will inspire you to come up with solutions of your own. —By Gitanjali Rao
Ultimate Indoor Garden
Eating a salad is more satisfying when you harvest the greens yourself. Want to grow a garden but don’t have a yard? Consider a Gardyn. This is a vertical indoor-growing system. It’s powered by artificial intelligence. You can choose from 32 plants. They include fruits, vegetables, herbs, and flowers. They’ll grow right in your home. Load in the seedpods. An app monitors light and humidity. Then it lets you know when your crops are ready to harvest. —By Marjorie Korn
Following the Conversation
Robotics might help virtual classes feel more human. The Meeting Owl Pro is a 360° tabletop camera. It shifts its lens and microphone to whoever is speaking. In hybrid classes, virtual participants will have a better feel for what’s happening in the room. “It’s able to follow the conversation,” Max Makeev says. He’s a cofounder of Owl Labs. To date, Owl Labs products are used by more than 50,000 companies and universities. They’re also used by K–12 schools. —By Jesse Will
Portable Purifier
“When people want clean water, they reach for plastic bottles,” Rakesh Guduru says. He’s the CEO of CrazyCap. But many people want a more sustainable way to hydrate on the go. So Guduru created a bottle cap. It uses cleansing UVC light. It sanitizes water in 60 seconds. The device has two settings. One purifies water from taps and fountains. The other purifies water from streams and ponds. The cap is rechargeable. It works with many reusable bottles. —By Simmone Shah
High-Tech Tutor
Robots have always fascinated Van Robotics CEO Laura Boccanfuso. But she felt most were too expensive. They were too technical for real-life use. So she developed ABii. It’s a robot tutor. It helps kids learn math and reading. Many students are learning from home. That’s because of the pandemic. “Schools more than ever need individualized learning help,” Boccanfuso says. ABii comes with lessons created by teachers. It uses a camera to detect changes in a student’s attention. Then it adjusts its approach. This helps individual learners. —By Nadia Suleman
Taking Notes
In 2013, Magnus Wanberg saw his colleagues taking notes on paper instead of on their laptops and phones. “Why hasn’t anyone replaced paper with technology?” he wondered. This led him to create the reMarkable paper tablet. It converts handwriting into digital text. It was released in 2016. Its thin design mimics paper. Now Wanberg has made the reMarkable 2. It’s less than a quarter inch thick: 30% skinnier than the original. And its battery can go two weeks per charge. —By Mariah Espada
Robofriend
This robot is friendly. It’s designed to boost empathy and social skills. It’s for kids ages 5 to 10. Moxie was created by experts in education and child development. Between them, they have worked on the TV show Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood, for Pixar, and for the Jim Henson Company. Moxie is a compassionate pal. It encourages reading and drawing. The robot sends kids on missions. These include writing kind notes to family members and talking about feelings with a friend. —By Marjorie Korn
Helpful Headset
AlterEgo was designed by researchers at the MIT Media Lab. This headset lets you communicate with a computer without touching a keyboard or speaking. Want to do a task, such as search for a weather forecast? Ask the question to yourself, silently. Sensors read signals from your face. Then the device uses a web connection to complete the task on your laptop. Researchers found that a prototype understood its user 92% of the time. —By Jason Cipriani
Smaller Compact Car
Do your parents get frustrated looking for a parking spot in a busy area? City Transformer’s electric vehicle could be the solution. The Israeli company’s two-seat car is tiny. But it’s fast. It can reach 55 miles per hour. At slower speeds, the vehicle can pull its wheels in closer for a one-meter (about one yard) width. This helps it fit on narrow streets and into snug spots. City Transformer expects the first vehicles to be on the road in Tel Aviv, Israel, by 2022. —By Patrick Lucas Austin
Handwashing Station
Handwashing is one of the best ways to stop the spread of viruses. But about 40% of the world’s population lacks running water and soap at home. That’s why Japan’s LIXIL has created the SATO Tap. It’s a portable handwashing station. It has a soap holder. The gadget is expected to go on sale in early 2021. It will cost between $3 and $6. LIXIL is working to get 500,000 units to households around the world. The company plans to do this in the next year. —By Ciara Nugent
More-Inclusive Gaming
About 46 million gamers in the U.S. have a disability. For some, standard controllers are hard to use. In 2018, Microsoft introduced its Xbox Adaptive Controller. It has ports. You can plug in aids, such as a foot pedal. Now Microsoft and Logitech have made the Adaptive Gaming Kit. It costs $99. Players get 10 buttons, two triggers, hooks, pads, loops, and other gear to customize their controllers. One reviewer described the kit as “honestly revolutionary.” —By Matthew Gault
Better Smartphone
More than 50 million tons of electronic waste is created each year. It includes materials that were unethically sourced. (For example, the gold in circuit boards is often mined under dangerous conditions.) But Fairphone makes phones from responsibly sourced materials. And they’re built to last. Made of up to 40% recycled plastic, the new Fairphone 3+ has an expected life span of five years. It has replaceable parts. You can change your battery, screen, or camera with a screwdriver. This will encourage  users to keep the device longer. —By Patrick Lucas Austin
|||||Theresa Julian wrote The Joke Machine. It is a book about how to write jokes. Here are three of her tips and some examples. Study them. Then write a few jokes of your own. 

Surprise your audience. All jokes are based on surprise.
My basketball team is good at dunking. Until we run out of cookies.
I was shopping for a new toilet but couldn’t decide if I wanted to buy it. I figured I needed to sleep on it.
Compare things that don’t belong together.
This Black Forest cake is awful. It tastes like there are chunks of actual forest in it.
I was really scared on the roller coaster—and trust me, I don’t scare easily. I’ve eaten the beans in the school cafeteria.

Create Puns by playing with words. Play with double meanings, similar sounds, and spellings.
What do you call a number that can’t keep still? A roamin’ numeral.
What do you call a fake noodle? An impasta.
|||||Women around the world are working to help the environment. Here are four who have done their part to protect Earth’s plants and animals. Which of these women most inspires you to take action?
Scientist Jane Goodall was born in London, England. She has always loved animals. She especially loves apes. Chimpanzees are apes. At age 26, Goodall began studying chimps in Tanzania. That’s in Africa. She’s fighting to save their habitat from deforestation.
Activist Wangari Maathai was known as the Mother of Trees. She taught people how important trees are to the environment. She started a group that plants trees across Africa. In 2004, she won the Nobel Peace Prize. Maathai died on September 25, 2011.
Scientist and environmental activist Vandana Shiva was born in India. She works to protect farmland. She helps people grow healthier and safer foods. Shiva has written many books. They teach readers about the importance of the land and how to take care of it.
American Sylvia Earle has always cared about the ocean. This scientist works to save the world’s oceans from pollution and overfishing. She goes on explorations with her team. The trips raise awareness about ocean conservation. 
|||||People have jobs. That is how they earn money. People choose jobs based on their interests and skills. Read on to find out about five different jobs. Which one sounds the most interesting? 
Vets take care of animals. They help them stay healthy. Vets also help sick animals get well. 

A judge rules a court of law. Judges help courts make decisions. They must be honest and fair
Have you ever flown in an airplane? If so, you can thank a pilot. Pilots fly planes around the world. They help passengers and crew members stay safe.  

Archaeologists study people, places, and things from long ago. On a job site, archaeologists use tools such as shovels and brushes. 
A photographer makes pictures for a living. Some photographers work in a studio.  They use different lenses and lights to get the best shots. 
|||||Winter storms began to sweep across the United States on February 11. They slowed distribution of the COVID-19 vaccine in parts of the country. 
Severe weather hit from Washington State to the southern U.S. Snow and ice closed airports and made roads slippery. Millions of people lost electricity as temperatures hit record lows.
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention expected delays in vaccine shipments. In several states, vaccination appointments were rescheduled. “We want to protect the safety of everyone involved,” Mike Parson said. He’s the governor of Missouri.
A Texas health center had no power on February 15. Without refrigeration, 8,400 vaccine doses were at risk of spoiling. Officials scrambled to give the shots. 
Other problems, like limited supply, have slowed the vaccine rollout. But it has improved in recent weeks. Each day, nearly 2 million Americans get a shot, says the New York Times.
Stop and Think! What information does the author provide in the lead, or first, paragraph? How does the rest of the article build on that paragraph?
|||||On Election Day, November 3, Americans will go to the polls to vote for president of the United States. But millions have already cast their ballot. As of October 19, a record 29 million Americans had voted early, at a polling site or by mail. That’s about six times as many as had voted at that point in the 2016 presidential election. The numbers show that people are eager to vote and concerned about in-person voting during the pandemic.
This early voting data comes from the United States Elections Project. It’s run by Michael McDonald, a political scientist at the University of Florida. “We can be certain this will be a high-turnout election,” he says.
Some states begin counting early votes as soon as they arrive. Others wait until Election Day. Either way, the public will not see results before then. With so many mail-in ballots to be counted, the winner might not be immediately clear.
Eddie Perez is an election expert. He works for the OSET Institute, which develops election technology. “Many people are passionate about participating in this election,” he told National Public Radio on October 18. “There’s a lot of bottled-up demand for people to get there right away and get their vote in.”
Stop and Think! What data does this article include? From what source does the author take this data? How does this information help you understand the election? 
|||||Suzanne Slade has written a new picture book. It’s called June Almeida, Virus Detective! Almeida was a scientist. She identified the first coronavirus in humans. That was in 1964. 
From an early age, Almeida loved science. When she grew up, she learned how to use a powerful microscope. This helped her make her big discovery. “No matter what challenges she faced, she was always learning about science,” Slade says. “She just kept working hard.”
|||||For 23 years, the Xerces Society for Invertebrate Conservation has held an annual monarch butterfly count. Each autumn, volunteers visit spots on the West Coast where monarchs are known to gather. They count the colorful insects to learn about the health of the species.

When Xerces started counting, in 1997, it found more than 1.2 million monarchs. By 2018, that number had dropped to fewer than 30,000. In 2020, the group reported a new low: just 1,914 monarchs. “These sites normally host thousands of butterflies,” Sarina Jepsen, of the Xerces Society, told the AP. “Their absence this year was heartbreaking.”

A study was published in March in the journal Science. Researchers looked at decades’ worth of data on butterflies collected by scientists and volunteers in the western United States. The researchers found that butterfly populations are shrinking by almost 2% each year. “That might sound like a small number” of butterflies, Matt Forister, the study’s lead author, told TIME for Kids. “But it compounds each year. Over time, it’s really bad.”

Cause and Effect

Monarchs aren’t the only butterfly population in decline. According to the study, most butterfly populations are reaching new lows.

Why are butterflies in trouble? For one thing, humans are taking over their habitat. Butterflies need flowering plants for food and to lay eggs on. When new buildings and roads replace fields and forests, the plants that butterflies need are lost. Pesticides used by farmers and gardeners also harm the insects.

Forister’s research suggests that climate change is to blame, as well. His team took a close look at “nice, natural areas” mostly unaffected by humans—places one might expect to find many butterflies flitting about. Even there, the numbers were down. That led Forister and his team to believe that warming temperatures in the fall are harming the insects.

How to Help

To help butterflies, look no further than your backyard. Growing flowering plants, like local milkweed, and avoiding pesticides can make a yard safe for butterflies. It’s also good to let it get messy. Butterflies use fallen leaves for protection. 

“Insects are in our backyards, even if we don’t always see them,” Forister says. “Having a yard free of toxins, with native plants, helps a lot.” 
|||||Americans began receiving direct payments from the United States government on March 12. The payments are part of a plan by President Joe Biden. The money will go to people who have been struggling during the pandemic. 
Biden signed the $1.9 trillion stimulus bill on March 11. It’s called the American Rescue Plan. The plan is designed to help the U.S. recover from the economic damage caused by the pandemic. It’s the second-largest stimulus bill in U.S. history. The largest was a $2.2 trillion bill. It was signed last year by President Donald Trump. 
The new bill provides direct one-time payments of up to $1,400 for eligible people. Hundreds of billions of dollars will help reopen schools, increase vaccine distribution, and support struggling businesses. 
Republican lawmakers say the bill’s cost is too high. They say the economy would improve with a smaller bill. Recent polls by Reuters and Pew Research Center have shown that 70% of Americans support the current stimulus bill. “This legislation is about giving the backbone of this nation . . . the people who keep this country going . . . a fighting chance,” Biden said in a statement. 
Stop and Think! Which details about the stimulus bill stand out to you, and why? How do you think the bill will affect people in your community?

|||||The first episode of Emily’s Wonder Lab, on Netflix, is about things that glow. Host Emily Calandrelli teaches a group of kids to make fluorescent paint. One exclaims that he added too much cornstarch. “Don’t worry,” Calandrelli tells him. “Science is all about trial and error.”
Calandrelli wants kids to know that failure is an important part of science. “Failure is not a bad thing,” she told TIME for Kids. “It’s okay to mess up, because that means you’re learning something.”
Calandrelli has four degrees in science and engineering. On the show, she shares her love of science with kids. Together, they do experiments. In one episode, they run across a pool of a gooey material called oobleck. In another, they make rainbow explosions. “Science is how we understand how the universe works,” Calandrelli says. “It’s like magic that you get to understand.”
|||||North Duke Street in downtown Lancaster, Pennsylvania, smells like dessert. The scent comes from a shop that sells stroopies. These are cinnamon waffle-sandwich cookies with a caramel center. 
The cookies are also known as stroopwafels. Workers at the shop bake about 10,000 of them each week. Co-owner Jennie Groff is proud of her product. But the thing she’s most excited about, she told TIME for Kids, “is that we provide meaningful employment to refugee women who call Lancaster their new home.”
FAMILY BUSINESS Jonathan and Jennie Groff pose outside their sweet shop with their four kids.
The Lancaster Stroopie Company has two main goals. One is to make delicious cookies. The other is to make a difference in the lives of refugee women and children. “It can be kind of lonely when you’re in a new place,” Groff says. “Even though the women are from different parts of the world, there’s just this community that’s developed at work, which is really beautiful.”
Coming to America
Refugees are people who have been forced to flee their country. This can be due to war or fear of persecution. There are about 26 million refugees worldwide. About half are under 18.
Anne-Marie Gray is executive director of the group USA for UNHCR. It helps the United Nations refugee agency. “These are people that don’t choose to flee,” she says of refugees. “They have to flee, often for their lives or safety.”
YUM! A stroopwafel is a cookie with a gooey caramel center. Here, a worker prepares the sweet treat.
Currently, the government allows up to 15,000 refugees to resettle and work in the U.S. President Joe Biden says he’d like to increase that number to 62,500 for this year. Refugees must apply for entry into the U.S. Applications are reviewed by the government. The screening process can last two years. If approved, a refugee might settle in Lancaster.
Danene Sorace is the city’s mayor (see “A Welcoming City”). She says moving to a new country can be tough. “What [Groff] is doing is providing a runway for families to be successful and thrive.”
New Friends and Neighbors
Mary Myint is from Myanmar. That’s a country in Asia. Myint felt unsafe as a Christian in Myanmar. She and her family resettled in Lancaster. That was in 2013. “I love Lancaster,” she says. But there were challenges. “The hardest part was that I couldn’t speak English,” she says. Myint also needed a job. She got one at the Lancaster Stroopie Company. It offers English classes. 
LUNCHTIME Jennie Groff (left) and Mary Myint (center) share a meal with fellow employees in 2019.
Today, Groff employs nine refugee women. They come from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Myanmar, Nepal, and Syria. “As they come and bring their gifts and talents, our lives are enriched,” she says.
A Welcoming City
Vendedores amish venden verduras en Lancaster en 2020.
 
 
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, has long been a welcoming place. “It’s just part of [our] DNA,” Jennie Groff says. In the 1700s, Amish and Mennonite people settled near Lancaster. They could freely practice their religion in the area. They’re still an important part of the community. 
 
In recent years, the city of Lancaster has welcomed legal immigrants and refugees. “We care about their success,” mayor Danene Sorace says. “Their success is our success.”

|||||Looking for something new to read? TIME for Kids has recommendations. Our editors selected some of the most exciting books of 2020. Then we handed them off to our team of TFK Kid Reporters to review. Here, TFK Kid Reporter Pranav Mukhi shares his thoughts on When You Trap a Tiger, by Tae Keller. For more book reviews, check back next week.
In When You Trap a Tiger, Lily, her mom, and her older sister move to Washington State to take care of the girls’ sick halmoni, or grandmother. Shortly after they move in with her, Lily notices that her Halmoni is behaving mysteriously. After looking around the house for clues, Lily discovers the reason: Years ago, Halmoni stole something from some magical tigers. Now they want it back.
Anyone who likes an adventure should read When You Trap a Tiger. The story line is gripping and keeps the reader entertained from beginning to the end. I like the mystery component of the book, the scary topic of spirits, the girls’ love for Halmoni, and their belief that she can solve every problem.
|||||Once a teacher, always a teacher!  
I met the secretary of education, Miguel Cardona, at the Department of Education, in Washington, D.C. I could instantly tell that he’s a true teacher at heart. 
Miguel Cardona was sworn in as the 12th secretary of education on March 2, 2021. As the head of the United States Department of Education, he advises the president and the federal government on policies, programs, and activities related to education in the United States. Before he started this job, he was the commissioner of education in Connecticut, his home state, and also a public school educator there. It would have been so cool to have been a student in his fourth-grade class.  
Secretary Cardona made me feel totally comfortable just being myself. I bet his vision is going to bring many great things to teachers and students. We talked outside, so we could stay safe and be socially distanced. After our interview, he took me to see his office—the view was amazing. He answered my questions and the questions below, from other TFK Kid Reporters from around the country. Talking with him was one of the most inspiring conversations I’ve ever had! 
Bellen Woodard:
This week is Teacher Appreciation Week. Is there anything you would like to say to teachers?
Miguel Cardona:
I want to say thank you, because teaching is a tough profession. It’s a very rewarding profession. But this past year—I won't say this lightly—I really feel like teachers saved lives, because they were there for their kids, whether it was in person or connecting with them when they were at home, going through some hardship. This year, more than any other year, we need to, as a country, stand up and applaud our teachers for what they’ve done.
Bellen:
What is being done to promote equity in the school building? This includes what resources children learn from, and the curriculum.
Cardona:
In our country, ever since I was your age, the inequities in education were pretty bold. They were pretty obvious. So throughout my career—I was a fourth-grade teacher, I was a school principal at an elementary school, and then I worked at the district and state levels—I really cared about making sure all students had opportunities to be successful. And now, as secretary of education, one of the things that I want to do is make sure that the American Rescue Plan, which the president and Congress pushed forward, goes toward those students who need it the most. Because I think that in order for us to close those gaps, where all students can achieve high, we have to provide more support to those students who have been underserved historically, and students who need a little bit more support. So I’m totally in favor of that.
TFK Kid Reporter Afton Campbell, age 12, Surprise, Arizona:  
How can students help welcome migrants into the educational system? 
Cardona: 
That’s a great question. We often talk about what the adults can do, but I think what the kids can do is kind of more important. Maybe welcome them by just smiling. It’s amazing what a smile can do for a student who’s new to a country, who maybe doesn’t know the language or the customs and the culture. A smile is a universal language. And also accepting them and bringing them in. If they’re playing kickball or something, let them play, even though they may not know the rules yet. You can teach them. But also be accepting of who they are. They might come with different food, they might have different customs or different dress. Accepting who they are and affirming them is a great way students can help.
TFK Kid Reporter Victoria Hanson, age 11, Chadds Ford Township, Pennsylvania: 
I am in the sixth grade, and I have noticed that my school curriculum and my older sister’s high school curriculum both lack diversity. I think this contributes to the racial issues we have in this country. What are your plans to ensure that all states adopt and implement diversity and inclusion into their school curriculums?
Cardona: 
That’s a great question. When I was commissioner of schools in Connecticut, we passed the requirement that all districts had to teach Black and Latino studies. We did that because we felt that the curriculum didn’t really reflect the beautiful diversity in our schools. I know students are more engaged in school when they see people that look like them in their stories, or they get to learn about other cultures. I think that’s important, not only for students of color, but for all students—to see diversity in their books. We want to encourage states to make sure that they’re looking at the curriculum and listening to students. If we listen to students regularly, we’ll hear about other ways we can improve our system.
TFK Kid Reporter Rory Hu, age 11, Cupertino, California:
The number of girls who pursue a STEM-based career is dramatically lower than the number of boys. What would you do to encourage more girls to look into STEM?
Cardona:
That’s a great question too. Reduce the stigma, [the idea] that it’s only a boys’ field. That’s absolutely not true. There are so many STEM opportunities for all students, including girls, and we have to have programs that introduce them to those things. Bring in people who are working in the STEM fields to talk to students. And it would help if those people were females, to model that the STEM fields are for girls, too. 
TFK Kid Reporter Ian McKenna, age 16, Austin, Texas: 
Currently, the states have varying metrics and rankings to assess graduation rates and students' preparedness for college. In order to create a more equal educational playing field for all students, are there any thoughts of creating national standards for excellence, both within states and across the country? 
Cardona:
Another great question. It’s interesting, because most states prefer to have some autonomy around some of those decisions. And actually, our system is set up so that states are responsible for education. [The federal government] provides a supportive role, we provide some funding, and we protect the rights of students. But in terms of curriculum and standards, those are mostly state-based decisions. We do encourage high standards, and where possible, we try to encourage consistent practices so that there are not different standards in different states. 
TFK Kid Reporter Jeremy Liew, age 13, Riverside, Connecticut:
What Meriden [Connecticut] Public Schools teacher inspired you?
Cardona:
Riverside’s not too far from where I live, where I raised my family. When I was in second grade, I had an art teacher, Mr. O’Neil. I remember being in his class, doing a picture about football—I love football. I remember looking up and it hit me then that he was my first male teacher. He was my first African-American teacher. And he was my first teacher that introduced a topic that I really loved—football. So I always admired him. To this day, I know Mr. O’Neil. And when I got to high school, there was a teacher named Mrs. Ransom, an art teacher also, who really inspired me to become a teacher. So those are two teachers who really influenced me.
TFK Kid Reporter Sophia Hou, age 11, Short Hills, New Jersey:  
In the fall, if parents are vaccinated but young students are not, will students be required to go in person? And now that schools are prepared to go remote, will schools have snow days anymore?
Cardona:
Before I have a statement on the snow day thing, what do you think? Should we have snow days?
Bellen:
Yes. Because in a normal year, you wouldn’t have to go online.
Cardona:
Now let me ask you this: If your summer could start three days earlier, would you prefer to have snow days or just to do online school, so you could get out a little bit early?
Bellen:
I would probably prefer to have snow days.
Cardona:
There’s something about snow days, right? To know that you don’t have to get up and you can stay in bed a little longer. Yeah, I hear you. 
So the [other] question is: If parents are vaccinated, should I require students [to go to school in person]? I’ll be honest with you, I know education and I know students, but I’m not a medical expert. So I would leave that to the medical experts to determine whether or not it should be required. 
With regard to snow days, I remember talking to someone from Connecticut maybe three weeks ago, and they told me that they’re debating this very issue. But your perspective, as a fifth grader, would be to just keep the snow days, we’ll take on the [extra] days at the end of the school year. Good to know that. I’ll let them know.
TFK Kid Reporter Abby Rogers, age 11, Lahaina, Hawaii: 
What is the Department of Education going to do to catch up all the students in public school who have lost a year of education compared to the students who have been going in person to private school the whole year?
Cardona:
That issue, Bellen, keeps me up at night. I want to make sure that when we go back to school, we’re relentless about making sure that all students have an opportunity to catch up not only academically but emotionally, too. Those students have been behind a computer for a year. They need to be around their friends. They need to be playing. So when we get back to school, it’s not just about making sure that they’re getting double the work. They have to have double the time to be with their friends and engaging in those things that make school fun. 
TFK Kid Reporter Pranav Mukhi, age 11, South Setauket, New York: 
In your nomination speech, you mentioned that you were hoping to forge opportunities out of the COVID crisis. Could you tell us about what opportunities you were hoping to forge?
Cardona:
That’s a great way to end the interview. The crisis really made life tough for all of us. We have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to come back stronger than we ever were before. And what I mean by that is, we have the opportunity to make sure all children—regardless of skin color, where they live, whether they have money or they don’t have money—have opportunities to go to college and achieve their dreams. We have opportunities to reimagine what school looks like and to allow students like you to have a greater voice in the learning that happens and in the curriculum. We have opportunities to reach students that we haven’t been able to reach before. There are so many opportunities to not only help our school system but lift our nation.  
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
|||||The tiger is an endangered animal. There are only 4,000 wild tigers left in the world. But their number is rising. That’s thanks to efforts in India. In July, the country announced that it had nearly 3,000 tigers. That’s more than half of the world’s wild tigers!

Tourists keep a safe distance from a female tiger. It’s crossing a road in India’s Kanha Tiger Reserve.
India has set aside land for tigers. On these reserves, tigers can spread out and hunt. Sometimes, they come across people or animals. India’s government has moved villages away from reserves. This protects farm animals from hungry tigers. It also protects tigers from angry villagers.
Nilanga Jayasinghe works for the World Wildlife Fund. “We have made big strides in tiger conservation,” she told TIME for Kids. “But threats to tigers remain.” 
In Asia, tigers are illegally hunted for their skin, whiskers, and teeth. Shari Rodriguez is a wildlife expert. She says India’s success gives her hope. “This is a small, small victory in a long war against extinction."
|||||There are so many ways to have fun and stay cool during the summer months. Here are some of our favorite outdoor toys and games.
Colorful Creations 
Sidewalk chalk is a classic tool for creative expression. You can draw pictures on surfaces such as cement and asphalt. You can also create a hopscotch court or leave friendly messages for neighbors. A company called Twee makes chalk in nontraditional shapes. In one set, Carrie's Castle, the chalk comes in geometric shapes that can be used to build castles. The Mason's Planets set contains nine chalk balls. The largest of these "planets" consist of three layers of color, so they change as you draw. (Mason's Planets Sidewalk Chalk: $42; Carrie's Castle Sidewalk Chalk: $36)
A Soapy Surprise
A lot of science goes into making soap bubbles. But the results—delicate spheres floating by on the breeze—feel like magic. Plus, they're so much fun to pop! Younger kids will love chasing down a cloud of bubbles. Older kids: Try to see how big of a bubble you can make. Budding scientists might even try to stir up the perfect homemade bubble solution. Just mix water, dish soap, and a pinch or two of sugar. For enough bubbles to last you the whole summer, we like Gazillion Bubbles' two-liter solution bottle, by Funrise. It comes with a specially designed seven-in-one bubble wand, perfect for blowing bubbles of all sizes. ($11)
Fun at Night
There's plenty of summer fun to be had after the sun goes down. Use glow sticks to light up outdoor games, such as soccer or basketball. Or stay active with a game of glow-in-the-dark Capture the Flag redux, by Starlux Games. The goal is for your team to capture your competitors' "flag"—a glowing orb—before they capture yours. Keep an eye on their movements by following the glow-in-the-dark bracelets. But look out: They can see you too! Indoors or outside, the game is a great way to fill the warm twilight hours. ($50)
A New Challenge
Need a break from slides and swings? Try an obstacle course. It's a great way to keep your body moving. Plus, it improves your focus and resilience. It's okay if you fall. You can always get up and try again! Take a crack at obstacle course fun with B4 Adventure's Slackers NinjaLine 36-Foot Intro Kit. It comes with webbing that can be attached between two strong trees or posts. It also comes with hanging obstacles including gymnastic rings, monkey-bar holds, and nylon ropes. As your skills improve, you can increase the challenge by moving the obstacles farther apart. ($100) 
Fill 'Em Up
Playing games and doing activities with water balloons are great ways to spend time outdoors this summer—and to beat the heat! But filling and tying hundreds of water balloons is a time-consuming chore. Zuru's Bunch O Balloons changes that. It makes preparing water balloons fast and easy. Bunch O Balloons attaches to your hose. In 60 seconds, and all at once, it fills and ties 100 multicolored balloons. Play catch until they've all gone splat on the ground. ($8)
Stay Cool
Sprinklers aren't just for watering the lawn. They're also great for helping kids stay cool and have fun during the summer. Sprinklers add a fresh twist to games like freeze tag or Simon says, too. You can even create an obstacle course around a sprinkler. This rainbow Gigantic Outdoor Water Sprinkler, from PoolCandy, sprays water in all directions and features a jumbo archway that you and your friends can run through—a great finish line for a footrace. It's a refreshing addition to any active outdoor game. ($50) 
Slide into Summer
Nothing says summer like a Slip 'N Slide. The classic toy was invented in 1960 by Robert Carrier. Carrier came home from work one hot summer day to find his son and some friends sliding down the painted concrete driveway on a stream of water they created using the garden hose. Carrier had the idea to use a strip of plastic to create a safer surface. His idea was patented in 1961. Later that year, the toy company Wham-O began manufacturing the Slip 'N Slide. It was an instant hit. Today, Wham-O makes many different Slip 'N Slides, including the Slip 'N Slide Wave Rider Double. It's an extra-wide version that lets two riders slide at the same time. ($40)
|||||Many of the Southeast Iowa Union’s older readers don’t get their news online. Instead, they rely on the newspaper. Ashley Duong is a former reporter for the Union. She says national papers did not cover the pandemic in rural America very much. So “people appreciated the reporting we did,” she told TIME for Kids.
Yet local newsrooms are in trouble. Around 1,800 local newspapers have closed since 2004. That’s according to a PEN America report. They can’t compete with national news outlets. This is a problem for democracy.
Many communities do not have a trusted source for health or education news. And there isn’t much reporting about local government. Without that information, people are less likely to vote in local elections.
Many Americans still trust local news outlets. The Pew Research Center found that 46% of adults relied heavily on local coverage early in the pandemic.
It’s easy to see why. Ren Larson is a reporter for the Texas Tribune and ProPublica. “The media holds our elected officials and community leaders accountable,” she says.
Making a Change
Larson’s reporting has helped readers take action. She worked on a story for the Arizona Republic. It was about towns vulnerable to wildfire in 2019. It drew on data from communities across the western U.S. “People used that data to present to their local council about the hazards [in their area],” Larson says.
Local reporting is especially important in a pandemic. People need information about safety measures and vaccines.
Annika Hom writes for Mission Local. The news site covers the Mission District, in San Francisco, California. Its reporters questioned officials about how they were handling the neighborhood’s struggle with COVID-19. “Local journalism helps you get closer to the truth,” Hom says.
Larson agrees. “Local newsrooms have their finger on the pulse of what’s happening in a community,” she says. “They are essential to maintaining a democracy.” 
|||||
A group of stars is called a constellation. The shape seems to form a picture. Here are four constellations. Have you seen them in the night sky? 
Scorpius is one of the brightest constellations in the sky. It looks like a scorpion. 
This is the Big Dipper. It looks like a tool for scooping water from a bucket. 
This constellation is Orion. Orion is a hunter. The three stars on his “belt” shine bright.
This is Pegasus. In Greek mythology, Pegasus is a flying horse.  
|||||At first, November 25 seemed like an ordinary Wednesday for Tyler Gordon. But that changed when the 14-year-old artist received an unexpected phone call. Who was it? Kamala Harris, who was then vice president-elect of the United States. 
Days before the call, Tyler shared a video on Twitter that showed him painting a portrait of Harris. The video went viral. It eventually caught Harris’s attention, and she called Tyler to praise his work. “It’s a very special thing to be an artist like you are,” Harris told him. “It’s a gift you give so many people.”
Tyler, who’s from San Jose, in California’s Bay Area, has been painting since he was 10 years old. He was born deaf, and at age 5, he had surgery to gain some hearing. But he has been bullied at school because of a speech impediment. He has learned how to use art as a tool to move past these hardships. “My art gives me power to be myself,” Tyler says, and he shares that power with his many online followers.
Tyler’s talent has caught other people’s attention, too. He was chosen as one of the five finalists for TIME’s 2020 Kid of the Year. Later, TIME commissioned him to paint basketball star LeBron James. The resulting portrait was featured on a recent cover of the magazine.
PAINTING A LEGEND In December 2020, TIME selected LeBron James as Athlete of the Year and asked Tyler Gordon to paint his portrait. The painting became the magazine’s cover—and drew this response from James.
Tyler’s known for painting portraits of people who inspire him. That’s why he painted one of Harris. He says he admires her ability to break barriers. She’s the first woman, the first Black person, and the first person of South Asian descent to become a U.S. vice president. 
Soon after his call with Harris, Tyler decided to paint another portrait. This time, his subject was Joe Biden, who was then president-elect. Tyler looks up to Biden since Biden, too, has struggled with a stutter. 
Now a TFK Kid Reporter, Tyler shared a few words about Harris, Biden, and that very exciting day in November. Read what he had to say below. —By Rebecca Mordechai
In His Own Words
Getting a call from Kamala Harris was the most exciting thing that has ever happened to me. It was a typical day, and my mom and I were just sitting down, talking about painting, when all of a sudden, her phone started ringing. The call was from a private number. She answered it, and we heard, “Hi, it’s Kamala Harris!”
My legs went weak and my hands started to sweat. I didn’t know what to do. My smile went from ear to ear, and I felt all warm inside. I couldn’t believe I was actually talking to Kamala Harris and that she had called me. During our call, she told me how proud she was of me and how much she loved the painting of her. She even said that when she comes to town, she wants to meet me!
TYLER AND KAMALA Tyler Gordon shows off his painting of Kamala Harris.
I’m so inspired by Kamala Harris, because she has overcome so many obstacles in her life. She’s the first Black U.S. vice president and also the first female U.S. vice president. She’s from the Bay Area, and I know if she can come from here and do amazing things, then so can I. Joe Biden is inspirational to me too, because he has a stutter, just like me. He’s not embarrassed or afraid of what people think about the way he talks. He gives me the confidence to speak and not worry about what people think. —By Tyler Gordon
|||||Matt de la Peña wrote Carmela Full of Wishes. TIME for Kids asked him some questions.

Question: How did you become a writer?
Answer: I wrote poems when I was a child. Then I grew up and read a lot of books. I thought, “I could write a book, too.”
Q: How do you write a picture book?
A: First, I imagine the characters. I wonder how they see the world. Then I start writing.
Q: Where did you get the idea for Carmela Full of Wishes?

A: It was a windy day. Dandelion spores filled the air. A boy said, “Look, the sky is full of wishes.” It sounded like a poem to me.
Q: Who is the illustrator of Carmela Full of Wishes?
A: His name is Christian Robinson. He is a talented artist. I am always excited to see how he imagines my characters.
Q: What is the best part of your job?
A: I love visiting classrooms. Kids ask questions about my stories. We have fun conversations! 
VIDEO COURTESY THE KANSAS CITY, KANSAS, PUBLIC LIBRARY
|||||*Miles have been rounded to the nearest whole number.
Some animals travel long distances when they migrate, or move from one place to another. They migrate for different reasons. Some animals migrate to find food. Others do so to breed. Often, animals migrate when the seasons change. Many travel hundreds of miles. 
Scientists tracked the land mammals that traveled the farthest. The scientists measured the distance from the animals’ starting point to their destination and back again. Here are the five land mammals that cover the most distance. 
|||||The drug company Moderna has asked the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for emergency approval of its COVID-19 vaccine. It made the request on November 30. If the FDA agrees, enough vaccine for millions of Americans could be ready by the end of the year.
Emergency approval means a drug can be used before testing is complete. Moderna is the second company to ask for it. Pfizer was the first. It made its request on November 20. Its vaccine was approved in the United Kingdom on December 2.
Cases of COVID-19 are on the rise in the U.S. Recently, there have been more than 160,000 new cases per day. Daily, there have been more than 1,400 deaths. Officials say the numbers could be even higher in the coming weeks. At press time, the novel coronavirus had infected nearly 14 million people in the U.S. More than 268,000 had died. Worldwide, 63 million people had caught the virus. Nearly 1½ million had died.
IN THE LAB A scientist prepares a blood sample during a Moderna vaccine trial in August.
The FDA must decide if Moderna’s vaccine works and is safe. A late phase of vaccine trials began in July. The trials involved 30,000 people. Moderna says its drug is about 94% effective at preventing COVID-19. And it is 100% effective at preventing severe cases of the disease, the company says.
With FDA approval, Moderna says it could have 20 million doses ready for Americans by late December. That’s enough for 10 million people. Each person will need two doses. The first to be vaccinated will be healthcare workers and the elderly. Pfizer expects to have enough doses for more than 12 million Americans. It will be at least spring before any vaccine reaches the general U.S. population.
Stop and Think! How does the author use data to tell this story? What does data tell us about the COVID-19 vaccine and why it is needed? Which numbers stand out to you, and why?
|||||This month, we’ll be sharing notes from kids about their heroes. But we’re happy to hear from you on any topic! Write to us at tfkeditors@time.com to share your thoughts and ideas. You might see your name in a future issue.
From Felicity North, 11, in Washington Township, NJ:
My hero is my Aunt Julia. She is a nurse. During the pandemic, she’s been taking care of patients with COVID-19. She was not able to see her parents, nieces, and nephews for a long time because she chose to help others, selflessly.
From Raj Isiguzo, 10, in San Antonio, TX:
I am proud that my parents are both frontline workers. But at the same time, I am worried, because the hospitals are filling up again with people that have the coronavirus.
From Ellie Remsburg, 11, in West Grove, PA:
Mr. Josh, my neighbor, is my hero. He is a firefighter. Even though he has a chance of getting sick from going to so many houses, he still does it to help people. He is courageous and a hero.
TFK Kid Reporters Victoria Hanson and Miguel Madero contributed reporting. 
|||||Black people have been treated unfairly in the United States. Martin Luther King Jr. fought against unfair laws. Learn more about King and how he helped our country and its people. 
A Better Future
King wanted his kids to live in a country where everyone is treated with respect.
Fighting for Change
King worked with the government to make laws more fair to Black people. He wanted to help Black people sign up to vote.
Marching for Good
King took part in marches. In 1965, people walked from Selma to Montgomery, Alabama. They marched for voting rights.
Giving Speeches
King inspired many with his speeches. His most famous speech is called “I Have a Dream.” He shared his ideas about how all people could live together in peace.
Where in the World?
There is a Martin Luther King Jr. memorial in Washington, D.C. It is near the spot where King gave his famous “I Have a Dream” speech.
|||||On February 17, TIME released it’s annual TIME100 Next list. It “highlights 100 emerging leaders who are shaping the future,” writes TIME editor in chief Edward Felsenthal. Poet Amanda Gorman, TikTok star Charli D’Amelio, and Georgia senators Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock are just a few of the changemakers who made the list this year.
“Everyone on this list is poised to make history,” says Dan Macsai, editorial director of the TIME100. “In fact, many already have.” This is true of Marcus Rashford (pictured), star player for Manchester United and England’s national football (soccer) team. In June, he successfully advocated for the English government to address the country’s child-hunger crisis.
|||||Sports can be a lot of fun. They are also a great way to get exercise. But it’s important to play safe and keep your body healthy. Find out how.
Warm up.
 
Before playing, take time to warm up. Go for a light jog. Learn a few stretches. Stretching will loosen up your body.
Wear protective gear.

This includes helmets, pads, and mouth guards. Different sports use different gear. Make sure it fits you properly.
Drink water.
The body needs water to stay healthy. When you sweat, your body loses water. That’s why it’s good to keep a water bottle handy when you play. Take a break and drink up!
Take care of yourself.
If you get hurt while playing a sport, stop. Playing with an injury can make it worse. Tell a parent or coach if you’re hurt.
Did You Know?
It’s important to listen to your coach. Coaches teach players the rules of a sport. Rules help keep you and other players safe. That makes for a good game.
|||||Artists help us see our world differently. They inspire us. Read about four African-American artists. Who inspires you? 
Augusta Savage (1892–1962)
Augusta Savage was a sculptor. She made figures out of clay and other materials. She was also a teacher. She helped younger African-American artists. 
Duke Ellington (1899–1974)
Duke Ellington was an important American composer. He wrote more than 3,000 songs. Trumpet player Wynton Marsalis said, “His music sounds like America.” 
Kehinde Wiley (1977–present)
Kehinde Wiley paints colorful portraits of people. He was the first African-American artist to paint a president’s portrait. He painted Barack Obama in 2018. 
Misty Copeland (1982–present)
Misty Copeland is a well-known dancer. She is a ballerina at the American Ballet Theatre (ABT). She was the first African-American woman at ABT to be chosen as a lead dancer.
|||||Quarterback Tom Brady, of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, celebrates his team’s Super Bowl win on February 7. Tampa Bay beat the Kansas City Chiefs 31–9. This was Tampa Bay’s second victory in the big game. And it was Brady’s seventh Super Bowl win. He took home his fifth Super Bowl Most Valuable Player title. Super Bowl LV was also historic for being played during a pandemic.  

|||||SONIA SOTOMAYOR is a U.S. Supreme Court justice. She has written a kids’ book called Just Ask! It is about kids who have differences that can make life challenging. 
Sotomayor knows what it is like to feel different. She grew up with juvenile diabetes. She knew other kids were curious about her condition. But they did not ask her about it. “If you see someone doing something different, just ask!” Sotomayor told TFK Kid Reporter Zara Wierzbowski. “Differences are not negative things,” Sotomayor says. “They are wonderful things.” 
|||||People voted for president on November 3. They also voted for members of Congress. There are two main candidates running for president. They are President Donald Trump and former vice president Joe Biden. So far, there is no winner in the race. 
On Election Day, some people voted in person. But many people voted before Election Day. They voted in person or by mail. The coronavirus pandemic is one of the reasons for this. And people were excited to cast their vote. Millions of mail-in ballots are still being counted. 
Election experts say it is important to be patient. It could take days or weeks for votes to be counted. But soon, Americans will know the outcome of the race. 
Votes are still being counted in key states. These include Wisconsin, Michigan, and Pennsylvania. The results in these states will help tell us if Trump or Biden is the winner. 
Keep reading timeforkids.com for updates on the 2020 election. 
|||||Texas residents are still recovering from a winter storm that hit several states in mid-February. Extreme cold caused much of the state’s power grid to fail. “We were woefully unprepared for this kind of cold,” said Texas state representative Ron Reynolds.
Millions of Texans lost electricity for days as temperatures sank into the 20s. Cold homes meant frozen pipes and no running water. At least 70 people in the United States have died.
The problem, experts say, was in how the state’s energy system is designed. Texas gets much of its electricity from natural gas, and that system isn’t built to withstand such cold. To make things worse, Texas’s electrical grid is not connected to the rest of the country. Other states’ grids are. Oklahoma and Louisiana were also hit by the storm, but their issues were less severe because their power systems are part of larger grids.
The storm was a “wake-up call,” says White House climate adviser Gina McCarthy. She called on Texas officials to create a plan for future storms. “It is going to happen,” she says. “And we need to be . . . resilient and working together as much as possible.”
Stop and Think! Why is last month’s storm in Texas still newsworthy? What lessons can be learned from what happened there?
|||||Bears are large, furry mammals. They have big skulls and strong jaws. Different types of bears are found in many parts of the world. How does a bear spend its day? Read on to find out. 
Omnivores eat both meat and plants. Brown bears can eat up to 90 pounds of food in a day. That’s a lot of chewing!
Bears protect their young. These sloth bear cubs are riding on their mother’s back. 

Polar bears are good swimmers. They dive into the water to hunt for fish and seals. A polar bear’s front paws are webbed. This helps the bear paddle.
This means they sleep for most of the winter. But first, they fill up on food. A bear’s winter home is called a den. 
Bears have four paws. Each paw has five sharp claws. Bears use their paws for digging, fishing, hunting, and climbing.

|||||The United States government has three branches. Congress is the legislative branch. It makes the nation’s laws. Congress works in the U.S. Capitol building. That’s in Washington, D.C. 
Congress has two chambers, or parts. One is the Senate. The other is the House of Representatives. 
The Senate has 100 senators. That’s two for each state. Senators are elected every six years.
This is the Senate chamber. Senators are getting ready to take a vote that will affect all Americans.
The House has 435 members. They serve two-year terms. The number of representatives from each state depends on its population. States with more people get more representatives.
This is the House chamber. Members are having a debate. The Speaker of the House is sitting beneath the flag.
Laws of the Land
 
To make a law, Congress starts with a bill. Any member of Congress can write one. It’s even possible for your ideas to become a bill. You can send them to your representative or Senator in a letter or email.
Congress has been meeting at the U.S. Capitol building, in Washington, D.C., since 1800.
After a bill is written, the House and the Senate debate it. The bill must get a majority of votes in both chambers to pass. Then the bill goes to the president. If the president signs the bill, it becomes a law. 
Congress also acts as a check on the president’s power. Let’s say the president vetoes, or rejects, a bill. Congress can override the veto if two-thirds of its members vote to do so.
Congress shares power with the executive branch. That branch is led by the president. It also shares power with the judicial branch. The U.S. Supreme Court is that branch’s highest court.
Leading the House
The House of Representatives is led by one of its members. This person is called the Speaker of the House. The current Speaker is Nancy Pelosi. She’s a representative from California. She’s the first woman to hold this position.

The Speaker is elected by House members every two years. He or she is second in line to take over the president’s job, if necessary. The vice president is first.
|||||Take two puppets and add former First Lady Michelle Obama. What do you get? A winning recipe for a new food show. Waffles + Mochi is on Netflix. It started on March 16. The show features kids, celebrity guests, and incredible cooking. 
Each episode highlights an ingredient. TFK Kid Reporter Bellen Woodard interviewed Obama. Bellen asked about the show’s key ingredients. “Friendship and people belonging,” Obama said.
|||||When Caster Pettway, 67, was a girl, there were always quilts around. Sometimes, her mother would hang a quilt on the porch. This was to show it off to the neighbors. She always seemed to be sewing a new one. “And everybody in every house, they did the same thing,” Pettway told TIME for Kids. 

Pettway is from Gee’s Bend, in Alabama. Many residents are related to people who were enslaved on a cotton plantation in the 1800s.

Pettway grew up in the 1960s. Back then, Gee’s Bend was a remote community of cotton farmers. Now, it’s seen as the birthplace of an important art form. 

A New Style 


Women in Gee’s Bend took up quilting sometime in the 1800s. At first, they made quilts to keep warm. But they didn’t have proper fabric. So they cut up old clothing and sacks. They sewed the scraps together. 

Traditional quilters use strict patterns. These women did not. They cut the fabric into large, irregular shapes. The results were bold and beautiful. The quilts were unlike any others in the world. 
SHARING THE TRADITION A quilter in Gee’s Bend works with two helpers.
 
In 1998, art collector William Arnett saw a photo of a Gee’s Bend quilt. He was impressed. Arnett visited the town and bought the quilt. In 2002, he arranged to display Gee’s Bend quilts in museums.  

The quilts took the art world by storm. Experts compared them to work by Henri Matisse. He was a famous European painter. 
One critic called the quilts “some of the most miraculous works of modern art America has produced.” 

A New Generation


Today, the people of Gee’s Bend are making sure the community benefits from its renown. In February, quilters began selling their work online for the first time. Leaders are promoting the town as a tourist destination. 


This has inspired a new generation of quilters. Pettway says some young family members have taken up the craft. “And I’ll tell you what,” she says. “They’re getting pretty good.” 
|||||What’s the difference between a fact and an opinion? Sometimes, it can be hard to tell them apart. Facts vs. Opinions vs. Robots is a new picture book. It teaches kids about facts and opinions. The book uses robots to show the difference between the two.
Michael Rex wrote and illustrated the book. In it, he asks questions of the reader. “Are the robots fighting?” is one of them. “I wanted to make sure that the pictures could be used to check the facts,” Rex told TFK.
|||||In March, a transportation company was set to finish construction of a new test track in France. The company will use the track to test out its design for a Hyperloop.  
A Hyperloop is a huge tube. Inside are pods to carry people and cargo. The pods do not have wheels. They float through the tube. Engineers use magnetics and air pressure to make this possible. 
Experts think the pods could someday travel more than 600 miles per hour. That’s more than twice the speed of the fastest trains. So far, there are no active Hyperloops. But several companies are working to create them. 
This is the world’s third test track. The others are in California and Nevada. 
|||||AV1 is a classroom robot. It works with students who are sick. AV1 takes a student’s place in class. The student can control the robot with a smartphone.
The robot has a camera. It lets the student see what is happening in class. The student can “raise a hand.” How? By tapping a button. This makes a light flash on AV1’s head. 
The child can speak through AV1. The robot even has glowing eyes. The student can push buttons to make AV1 look happy or sad.
|||||Daniel Holz is an astrophysicist at the University of Chicago, in Illinois. He’s also a member of LIGO, an observatory that studies black holes. He spoke with TFK Kid Reporter Miguel Madero.
1. What is a black hole?
A black hole is a region of space where gravity is so strong that nothing can escape it, not even light.
2. Can you explain what that means?
Say you’re standing on the surface of the Earth. If you could make a super-high jump, you could get off the Earth and go into space, like a rocket. But near the surface of a black hole, the gravity is so strong that even if you went as fast as possible—at the speed of light—you still wouldn’t be able to get away.
So no light comes out of a black hole. It’s perfectly dark. But we can see its effect on other things. We think there’s a huge black hole at the center of our galaxy. We can see stars orbiting it, like the Earth goes around the sun.
3. What happens if a planet or star gets pulled into a black hole?
If any object falls in, it gets stretched out into individual atoms, and even the atoms get ripped apart. We don’t know what happens after that.
4. Are there any black holes close to Earth?
Fortunately, no. But we think there are lots of black holes in our Milky Way galaxy. The nearest are hundreds of light-years away. That’s far. One light-year is about 6 trillion miles. So, at the speed of light, it would take hundreds of years to get to these black holes. It would take 25,000 years to get to the huge black hole at the center of our galaxy.
5. How do black holes form?
We think they are formed by the death of stars. Stars burn, and that’s why they glow. Eventually they run out of fuel and collapse. When stars collapse, some form black holes. 
6. What is LIGO, and how does it work? 
LIGO is short for Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory. There are actually two LIGOs: one is in Washington State and one is in Louisiana. 
LIGO is sort of like a telescope. But instead of looking for light from distant stars and galaxies, it listens for gravitational waves caused by black holes. Now, these waves are not sound. They’re ripples in the fabric of the universe. LIGO uses powerful lasers and mirrors to detect these ripples.
7. What discoveries has LIGO made?
LIGO has detected black holes of all sizes. Recently, we found one that was about 85 times the mass of the sun. That’s like taking 85 of our suns and crunching them down into one black hole. That’s big. There was another black hole spiraling into it. That one was 60 to 65 times the mass of the sun.
8. Why is this discovery important?
We think black holes form when stars collapse. But we also think that collapsing stars can’t make black holes that are 85 times the mass of the sun. They would blow up first. That means there must be some other way to make black holes that we don’t know about yet. That’s exciting, because now we have to figure out what’s going on.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
|||||DERRICK BARNES feels Black boys are represented unfairly in the United States. He wrote I Am Every Good Thing to change that. The book is narrated by a young Black boy. He is confident and proud. Barnes wants readers to feel that way too. “This book is full of affirmation,” he told TFK. “I believe in treating children like stars and really lifting them up.”
|||||A WALKING SCHOOL BUS is a group of students who walk to and from school together. An adult joins the students on the trip. Walking school buses keep kids active. They help kids get to school on time. And they help protect kids who walk dangerous routes. Jamie Racine works at Knapp Elementary School, in Wisconsin. She leads a walking school bus of eight to 10 students. 
“The kids have a lot of fun,” she told TFK. “It’s an opportunity for connection.”
|||||More than a billion tons of food are wasted each year, according to a new report from the United Nations. That’s 17% of the food produced globally in a year.
Most waste happens at home, the report says. People buy too much food. They also throw it away too soon because of the date on the package. Waste happens in restaurants and stores, too. Concern about food waste has grown because of the toll food production takes on the environment. Farming, packaging, and transporting food all produce greenhouse-gas emissions.
Experts say governments need to do more to track food waste and promote better habits. Richard Swannell is one of the report’s authors. He hopes awareness will lead people to value food more. “Food is too important to waste,” he says.
|||||Washington, D.C., is our nation’s capital. It is full of landmarks. They honor important Americans and tell stories about our country’s past.  Here, read about four famous landmarks in the city. Which ones would you like to visit?
Martin Luther King Jr. led the American civil rights movement. He fought for equality for African Americans. This memorial honors him. 
The United States Supreme Court is the nation’s highest court. It heads the government’s judicial branch.
The Lincoln Memorial honors Abraham Lincoln, the 16th U.S. president. Lincoln led our nation through the Civil War and freed people who were enslaved.
This is the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. Here, visitors pay tribute to fallen soldiers who fought during the Vietnam War.
The Washington Monument honors George Washington, our first president. He led the Continental Army during the American Revolution.
|||||A forest is made up of trees. This habitat is also home to many creatures. Did you know there are three types of forests? Read about them here. 
Tropical rain forests are hot and damp. They are home to more plant and animal species than any other habitat. The biggest rain forest is the Amazon. It is in South America. In the Amazon, you’ll find monkeys, frogs, toucans, jaguars, and other animals. 
Temperate forests are found all over the world. They have four seasons. They can be hot or cold depending on the time of year. Animals in these forests must adapt to the changing weather. Many types of trees grow in temperate forests. The leaves change color with the seasons. 
Boreal forests are cold. They are found in northern parts of the world. Spruce and pine trees grow in boreal forests. These trees have leaves shaped like needles. The largest boreal forest is in Russia. It is called a taiga. It is home to animals such as moose, wolves, and caribou.
|||||
Look at the diagram. It shows the different parts of an eye. The parts work together to help a person see.
The CORNEA has no color. It is clear. Light hits the cornea first.
The IRIS is the colored part of the eye. It controls how much light gets into the pupil.
The PUPIL is black. Light through the pupil to the inner eye.
The LENS is behind the pupil. It focuses light on the retina.
The RETINA turns the light into signals. A nerve sends them to the brain.
|||||Mushrooms are not animals, of course. But they’re not plants either. Mushrooms are a type of fungus. They grow in the grass and on trees. They grow on dead leaves and rotting logs. Let’s go on a mushroom hunt! 
There are many types of mushrooms.
 
They come in different shapes, sizes, and colors. Some are good to eat.
Watch out!
Some mushrooms are poisonous. They can make you very sick. Some can even be deadly. 
Meet a forager. 
A forager hunts for things to eat in the wild. This one is looking for mushrooms. She knows where to spot them. An experienced forager knows which mushrooms are safe to eat. 
Mushrooms have spores.
Spores are like tiny seeds. Spores are carried by the wind. New mushrooms can grow where they land.  
Did You Know?
These mushrooms make bright-blue milk.
These mushrooms glow in the dark.
This mushroom smells like rotting meat. Yuck! 

|||||Football is dangerous. Players get tackled. Their helmets clash. This can cause head injuries. Flag football is safer. There’s no tackling. The sport is becoming more popular.
Here’s how the game works. Players wear a belt with a flag. The quarterback throws the ball. A teammate catches it and runs for the end zone. The other team tries to snatch the flag. 
Flag football takes skill and speed. Some say it’s more exciting than tackle football. Plus, there are fewer injuries. TIME for Kids talked to a fifth grader in Illinois. His name is Danny Lee. He said, “All my friends are playing flag football. Every year, it gets more fun.”
|||||Gardens come in all shapes and sizes. Starting a new one from scratch might seem daunting. But with a little planning and a few tips, you’ll be growing in no time.
One of the most important things to remember when planning a garden is to grow what you love. This way, you’ll be sure to enjoy the process. You can grow herbs and vegetables. If you don’t like vegetables, you can grow fruits or flowers. If you’re allergic to flowers, try cacti and other succulents. 

 
You can grow a garden to feed yourself, your family, your neighbors, and people struggling with food insecurity, which is an issue I care deeply about. There are so many different things you can grow and so many different reasons to grow. Find your passion.
Simple Steps
Once you decide what type of garden you’d like to start, you’ll need to plan a few things before getting to work. First, figure out where your garden will be. Find a location that is fairly flat and has good access to sunlight. 
Maybe you live in an apartment and don’t have a yard. That’s not a problem! You can start a garden in containers or most repurposed plastic bottles. You can even grow a garden in old rain boots. 

Next, pick the right soil. This is important for an efficient garden. An expert at a gardening store can advise you on the best soil for your needs. 
After you have the correct soil, choose your plants. Will you start with seeds or seedlings? Growing from seeds is often less expensive. And it’s more satisfying, because you get to watch the growth from seed to plant. But growing from seedlings, or young plants, is easier. There’s a better chance your plant will grow big enough to produce. 
Get Planting
You’re finally ready to plant your garden. I suggest planting right before the start of the growing season. This is so the plants can adapt to the soil. You’ll see them start to produce sooner. 
If you’re a new gardener, start small. You want to enjoy your garden and not get overwhelmed. Once you know how to plant a garden, you’ll be able to plant season after season and try to grow new things. 
Soon your flowers will bloom or your plants will produce fruits and vegetables. Share flowers with neighbors to brighten their day, or bring some extra veggies to a family that’s going through a hard time. As I like to say, “Be a good human!”
 
 
 
|||||What was life like in ancient Rome? In many ways, it was like our life today. Here are some objects that have survived. What do they tell you? 
People in ancient Rome played games. They used dice like these. These dice are made of ivory.
Romans shopped at markets. They paid for things using metal coins.
Children wrote on waxed tablets. They used a stylus. The flat end was used to rub out mistakes.
Romans buried the ashes of the dead in urns. This urn is made of marble.
|||||Zoë Trisha Prinsloo sees all sorts of plastic trash during her beach cleanups in Cape Town, South Africa. The teenager has collected plastic bottles, food containers, straws, and more. 
Lately, Prinsloo has noticed an increase in a certain kind of plastic waste. It’s from PPE (personal protective equipment). Her group, Save a Fishie!, saw “eight different kinds of gloves” during a cleanup in late 2020, she told TIME for Kids. “I find masks more and more regularly, too.” 
People everywhere are wearing PPE to protect themselves from COVID-19. But when PPE is not disposed of properly, it pollutes the environment and endangers wildlife. Environmentalists and others are concerned about this growing problem.
Plastic Problem
Each year, at least 8 million tons of plastic enter the world’s oceans. That’s according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Now this waste includes more PPE. Experts estimate that up to 129 billion face masks and 65 billion gloves are used each month. 
In September 2020, the Ocean Conservancy held its annual International Coastal Cleanup. Participants found tens of thousands of PPE items. George Leonard is the group’s chief scientist. “PPE waste is a significant threat to oceans and marine life,” he told CNN.
PPE waste threatens other wildlife too, Sue Schwar says. She manages South Essex Wildlife Hospital, in the United Kingdom. Recently, her team cared for a seagull. “The loops of a face mask were bound around its legs,” she says. The staff untangled the bird. The animal healed and was set free.
ANIMALS AT RISK Seagulls pick up a discarded face mask in Dover, England, in August 2020.
Do Your Part
PPE will continue to be common until the pandemic ends. But there are steps you can take to reduce its environmental impact. 
Wear clean reusable masks. If you’re using a disposable one, Schwar suggests snipping the straps before throwing it out. This will prevent wildlife from getting tangled in them. Toss the mask in a garbage can with a secure lid. This is especially important if the trash is outdoors. Masks are easily carried away by wind.
With adult permission, you can join cleanup events like Prinsloo’s. “My main goal is to constantly remove anything and everything I can off our beaches,” she says, “and to try to prevent litter from being taken out to sea.”
|||||Kristie Reddick is a bug scientist. So is her friend Jessica Honaker. Together, they are the Bug Chicks. They study insects and spiders. They teach people what they know. 
The Bug Chicks go on adventures. They travel around the world. Reddick once went to Kenya. That’s in Africa. She found a camel spider. It was new to scientists. She got to name it. How did Reddick know it was new? “I had to look closely at the hairs on its ankle bones,” she told TIME for Kids.
Reddick and Honaker think bugs are great. But not all people agree. The Bug Chicks have a tip for people who are scared of insects. “Most bugs are harmless,” Reddick says. “If you are afraid of a bug, learn about it. Learning real facts will help you be less afraid.”
|||||Some 2.5 billion Tyrannosaurus rexes walked the Earth. That’s according to a new study published in the journal Science.
The reptiles were not alive all at the same time. They roamed for about 1.2 million to 3.6 million years, nearly 70 million years ago. At any one time, there may have been about 20,000 adult T. rexes. 

Only about 100 T. rex fossils have been found. Researchers arrived at 2.5 billion by looking at key facts about T. rex, including its average body size and energy needs.

Experts were surprised by the estimate. Charles Marshall is a biology professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and the study’s lead author. “That’s a lot of jaws,” he says. “That’s a lot of teeth. That’s a lot of claws.”

|||||Breakfast is an important meal. It gives us energy. People in different parts of the world eat different foods for breakfast. Here are five meals from five countries. Which breakfast would you like to eat?
Order Up
 
Pancakes, bacon, and eggs are popular breakfast foods in the United States.
That’s a Wrap

Huevos rancheros is a favorite breakfast in Mexico. The dish includes eggs, beans, and salsa over a corn tortilla. 
A Tasty Tradition
A traditional Japanese breakfast includes rice, boiled vegetables, and miso soup. It is served with a protein, like grilled fish.  
Beans, Please

The United Kingdom is known for its full English breakfast. The meal includes grilled tomatoes, toast, and baked beans.
Dig In

People in parts of Southern India enjoy rice with lentils and curry for breakfast. These are often eaten with a puffy bread. 

|||||The Croods: A New Age is a fun animated comedy for kids of all ages. It’s about relationships between two prehistoric families, the Croods and the Bettermans. 
The Croods live in a cave where they sleep together in piles. The Betterman family is more advanced. They have a house, separate rooms, modern clothing, and showers. When the two families meet, there’s plenty of adventure and conflict. There’s also a lot of love. 
Characters like Eep (a Crood) and Dawn (a Betterman) are easy to relate to because they’re happy to become friends. It’s the same as at my school, where the girls get really excited when they make new friends. And Gran, the Crood grandmother, is like a lot of grandparents, because she’s always telling funny stories about her childhood. My favorite part of the movie is when the character Thunk watches nature through a window. It’s his prehistoric television.
Kids will like The Croods because it’s funny and fast-paced. Parents will like it because it’s a good family movie. There’s even a new version of an old tune, “I Think I Love You,” for them to enjoy. 
I would rate The Croods an 8 out of 10. The only thing I didn’t like was that the characters are not diverse. And the story was a little predictable, but it was still interesting. The animation was really good and so was the theme of girl power. 
The Croods: A New Age was released on November 25.
|||||Jon Klassen loves picture books. He shared some of his favorites with TIME for Kids. They were published between 1958 and 1969.
Fortunately
Fortunately, Ned has been invited to a surprise party. Unfortunately, the party is many miles away. Fortunately, by Remy Charlip, follows Ned’s journey to the party. It’s an adventure filled with mishaps. Klassen loves the book’s simple illustrations. “It’s also just really funny,” he says. 
Sylvester and the Magic Pebble

Sylvester collects pebbles. One day, he finds one that grants wishes. But Sylvester’s wish causes big problems. It takes a long time for them to be solved. Klassen says Sylvester and the Magic Pebble, by William Steig, packs a lot into a short space: “It’s amazing, all that happens.”
Sam and the Firefly
Sam and the Firefly, by P.D. Eastman, was Klassen’s first favorite book. It’s about an owl named Sam. He’s awake at night, looking for a playmate. Klassen likes the story. But what he loves are the pictures. They make readers feel like they are inside another world. “I love the way that feels,” he says.  
|||||Mount Etna, a volcano on the Italian island of Sicily, continued to erupt on March 7. It spewed a column of lava and ash that reached a spectacular height of 33,000 feet.
Mount Etna is Europe’s most active volcano. It has been erupting since mid-February. Fortunately, no serious damage or injuries have been reported in nearby towns after the recent blasts.
|||||Anti-racism protests spread across the country in 2020. These protests haven’t just happened in the streets. Calls for change have come from many industries, such as entertainment, technology, and professional sports.
Pro athletes have often spoken out against social injustice, even though it’s risky for them to do so. This year, more athletes have taken a stand. They are encouraging others to use their voices—and their votes. Fans see them as heroes. Teams count on them to bring in billions of dollars. So when athletes speak out, people listen. Here are three examples of how athletes are leading the way.
Getting Out the Vote 
Players from the Atlanta Falcons are urging people to vote in the 2020 election. The players say it’s crucial to elect leaders who care about social justice. Before a game last month, Julio Jones and his teammates wore shirts quoting the late congressman John Lewis. He was an advocate for voting rights. The National Football League (NFL) has taken note. In August, it launched its own voting-education initiative. Several NFL teams will use their stadiums as voting sites.
Choosing Activism 
On August 26, athletes from the NBA and WNBA staged a protest against racism by refusing to play. Natasha Cloud (left), of the Washington Mystics, wasn’t with her teammates. She had already opted out of the season to help social-justice causes. She and Bradley Beal (center), of the Washington Wizards, teamed up. They led a march on Juneteenth, a holiday that honors the end of slavery in the United States. Here, they speak before the event. Cloud and Beal are active on social media. Like the Falcons, they’re asking people to vote.
Raising Her Voice
On September 12, tennis player Naomi Osaka won her second U.S. Open title in three years. But it wasn’t just her superb playing that made news. Osaka wore seven masks, one for each round of the tournament. Each named a Black victim of violence and racial injustice. Later, a reporter asked Osaka what message she wanted to send. She said, “The point is to make people start talking.”
|||||Emily’s Wonder Lab, on Netflix, is hosted by Emily Calandrelli. She’s a scientist and an engineer. On the show, she shares her love of science with kids. 
The show features experiments and activities. In one episode, there’s a pool of gooey stuff. It’s called oobleck. Calandrelli and the kids run across it. In another episode, kids learn how to cook using the power of the sun. “Science is how we understand how the universe works,” Calandrelli told TIME for Kids. “It’s like magic that you get to understand.” 
|||||Cities are full of people. Cities are where people live, work, and play close together. Some are built high into the air. There’s action at every level. There’s even action below the ground! Let’s explore one kind of city. 
1. The sky above this city is busy. Planes carry people in and out. Helicopters move people around. They take patients to hospitals. They also carry tourists to see the city’s sights.
2. Skyscrapers are tall buildings. They have many floors. They can be packed with people. Elevators carry people up and down. 
3. Nature is found in surprising places. This garden is on the roof of a building. Some people have a green space in their backyard. Many people share public parks with their neighbors. 
4. City streets are busy places. Buses and taxis carry people and things around. People who travel on foot are called pedestrians. 
5. Trains carry people around this city. Some trains travel through tunnels below the ground. They are called subways.  
|||||This is apple season! Apples are ripe in the fall. They are ready to be picked and eaten. Join TIME for Kids on a trip to the orchard. Let’s learn about this fall fruit. 

At the Orchard
Welcome to the orchard. An orchard is a place where fruit and nut trees grow. Here, apple trees are planted in rows. 

Lots of Choices
Apples are green, yellow, and red. There are thousands of different types of apples. They all have different names. 

Full of Flavor
Apples are good for you. They are tasty, too. An apple can be soft or crisp. It can be sweet or tart. Take a bite. How does your apple taste?

To the Market 
Apples are picked when they are ripe. People put them into bins. The bins are loaded onto trucks. Then the apples are taken to markets and stores.

Did You Know?
Look at the parts of an apple. Do you see the seeds? You can plant them. A tree might grow. It takes years for an apple tree to grow fruit.  

|||||A lot goes into making a magazine. Stories are written by writers. They are revised by editors. Words and pictures are arranged on the page by designers. Here’s the inside scoop on how TIME for Kids is made. 
Welcome to TFK’s daily meeting. At our office in New York City, we get together every morning. We gather to talk about what needs to get done. We also talk about what to put in the magazine. Our meetings keep us organized! Sometimes, we have only a day or two to work on a story. Getting things done takes teamwork and communication. 
Photos are an important part of a magazine. They help tell the story. Writers, editors, and designers meet to select photos. We look at many photos and choose the best ones. 
Here, TFK editorial director Andrea Delbanco and creative director Drew Willis look at photos for a story on moon exploration. How do we decide which photos to use? “The subject of the story must be clear,” says TFK designer Stephen Blue. 
First, a writer does research on a story. He or she reads about the topic and talks with experts. Here, TFK’s Rebecca Katzman meets with Jeffrey Kluger, of TIME. Kluger wrote about moon exploration for TIME. Katzman adapted his story for TFK.
Finally, the writer drafts the story. After that, an editor reads it. The editor makes changes and offers suggestions.
A designer works on the story layout. He or she moves photos and text around on a page. There’s a computer program to edit photos. There’s another program to move things around. 
See the text on this spread at right? It’s called “dummy text.” It helps the designers know where to put the photos. It also shows the writer how much space he or she will have in which to tell the story.
A copy editor is the last person to look at the story. Mike DeCapite (pictured) is one of TFK’s copy editors. He reads through every page of the magazine. He corrects mistakes. He fixes grammar and punctuation. He also rewrites awkward sentences. 
“No matter how many people have looked at something, it can always use another look,” DeCapite says. “I miss a lot of things the first time myself.”  
TFK’s production team looks over the magazine. They fix photos. They examine page proofs on a light table. They go over each page and make sure everything looks right.  
Finally, the magazine is sent off to TFK’s printing plant. It is in Wisconsin. There, millions of copies of the magazine are printed. The copies are put together. Then the magazines are mailed to schools all across the country. Now they’re ready to be read by you and your classmates!
|||||No winner has yet been declared in the 2020 presidential election. This year, because of the coronavirus pandemic, about three out of every four registered voters had the option to vote by mail. So millions of mail-in and absentee ballots are still being counted. 
Election experts say it’s important to be patient while waiting for the official vote count. They say it could be days, or even weeks, before Americans know the outcome of the election. 
A United States presidential candidate needs 270 out of 538 electoral votes to win. Both candidates—President Donald Trump and former vice president Joe Biden—still have a chance to reach that number. A few key states have yet to award their electoral votes to a candidate. Votes being counted in Wisconsin, Michigan, and Pennsylvania will play a big part in determining the outcome of the election. 
Early Wednesday morning, the candidates addressed the nation. Trump said his team is “getting ready to win this election.” Biden said his team feels “good about where we are.” 
Look for further updates on the 2020 election at timeforkids.com and in the November 13, 2020, issue of TIME for Kids. 
|||||Two old rivals are back at it in Tom & Jerry: The Movie. The film is a reboot of a classic cartoon. This version mixes animation with live-action footage. 
The film follows Tom, an alley cat, and Jerry, a mischievous mouse, as they chase, trick, and trap each other. Their antics are funny and sometimes destructive. At first, Tom and Jerry fight only each other. But soon, they’re forced to team up to face a common enemy. But can a cat and mouse really get along? 
HOTEL CHASE Tom (left) is hired to catch Jerry before the mouse causes any more damage at a fancy hotel.
Viewers will laugh as the two brawl like siblings and wreak havoc. I rate the movie an 8 out of 10. I like this new take, in which Tom and Jerry are frenemies. Tom & Jerry is now streaming on HBO Max.
|||||Earth Day is here! It takes place each year on April 22. The first Earth Day was 50 years ago. People celebrate by doing things that help protect the planet. Read on to learn more. How will you celebrate? 
Back in Time

The first Earth Day was in 1970. In the United States, millions celebrated. Some cleaned up parks. Others recycled. Lots of people helped out.
Speaking Up for Change
People come together on Earth Day. They ask leaders for change. People in government can pass laws to protect our land, air, and water.
A Global Event 
Today, people all over the world celebrate Earth Day. These children in China are doing an art project. They are painting a big picture of the Earth.
Lending a Hand
There are many things you can do with friends and family this Earth Day.  Volunteer in your community. Plant a tree or clean up a park. Do your part to help the planet!
Try It!
You can make a difference by writing a letter. Write to leaders in your town, state, or country. Let them know what issues you care about. 
|||||As a kid, Victor Escandell enjoyed mysteries and detective stories. He also loved riddles, even though he often couldn’t solve them. “I’ve never been very good at logic exercises,” the artist told TIME for Kids. “I prefer using my imagination.” 
In Sleuth & Solve: History, Escandell uses his imagination to put a creative spin on classic riddles. The book is a collection of 20 illustrated stories. Each includes a mind-bending mystery for readers to solve. To create the puzzles, Escandell worked with writer Ana Gallo. Escandell’s detailed drawings set the scene and provide clues. 
The book is also a history lesson. Each story is set in a different place and time, from the Aztec empire to the Italian Renaissance. “I think the book is a great example of learning while playing,” Escandell says. 
Escandell shared a story from Sleuth & Solve: History with TFK readers. Can you solve the riddle?

Answer: The pharaoh chose her for her honesty. He had distributed pots filled only with earth, but everyone assumed that each pot contained a seed. When nothing grew, all of the children planted their own—with the exception of the girl, who did not plant anything in her pot.
|||||School looks very different this year because of the coronavirus pandemic. Many students went back to school virtually. But some kids returned to a classroom. 
Life in the classroom has changed. There are new rules. “We’ll have to wear a mask,” Mia Westerman told TIME for Kids. She is a sixth-grade student in West Virginia. “And we’ll have to social-distance,” she added. 
A girl in Florida has her temperature taken outside her school.
No Easy Answer
Kids are less likely to get very sick from the virus. But being indoors and close to other people is risky. Kids can spread the virus to other members of the community. 
What is the best way to learn during the pandemic? There is no easy answer. Decisions are being made on a case-by-case basis. Kids are adapting to a lot of change.
These changes have not been easy on kids. Remote learning can be lonely. And many students lack access to Internet and the devices they need to learn.
There is a lot of uncertainty in the world right now. But you and your classmates are resilient. And the importance of learning will never go away. 
|||||The coronavirus pandemic is affecting people all around the world. In the face of this crisis, people near and far are finding ways to help. Here, TIME for Kids looks at efforts in four of the countries hit hardest. These actions show us the power of kindness and cooperation.
 
A volunteer helps a patient at a hospital in Beijing, China.
The coronavirus outbreak began in Wuhan, China, in December. The country took big actions to stop the spread of the virus. People were told to stay home. China ended its quarantine in Wuhan on April 8. 
Chinese billionaire Jack Ma has been doing his part to help others. He has sent supplies to people in other countries. In March, he donated 500,000 test kits to the United States. He also donated a million masks.
People in Barcelona, Spain, make face masks for use in hospitals and nursing homes.
At press time, Spain ranked second in coronavirus cases. Many doctors and nurses had been infected. On March 14, Spain’s government told people to stay home. Citizens have been leaning out their windows at night. They clap for health-care workers. Twitter user Carlos Delclós posted this message: “You are heroes. You are what solidarity looks like.
I hope that solidarity is what’s most contagious these days.”
Workers prepare free lunches for the elderly at a restaurant in Alexandria, Louisiana.
The U.S. has the world’s highest number of confirmed coronavirus cases. In New York, thousands of retired doctors and nurses have stepped up to help. The government is also taking steps. In March, Congress passed a $2 trillion bill. The bill will help people who are out of work.
Ordinary people are helping too. They are delivering food to the elderly and giving thanks to medical workers. 
A woman plays accordion for her neighbors in Milan, Italy, in March.
Italy has been hit hard by the new coronavirus. On March 9, the country’s government declared a nationwide quarantine. The spread of the disease has slowed since then.  
People are following orders to stay home. To cheer them up, musicians have been performing from balconies. They fill Italy’s empty streets with sound. Videos appear on social media. One post reads: “Italians . . .  always making the best of the worst. How can you not love them!”
|||||Dear TFK,
I’ve noticed that you focus a lot on young activists in your articles, and I love it! They are all so inspiring. When I feel inspired, I want to go out and do something, make a change in my community, and be an activist. So I wonder, what does it take to be an activist? How do you start? Can I become one? Surely, some of your readers would like to know.
Carolina Mariel Caraballo, 11
Bronx, New York
Dear Carolina, 
Anyone can become an activist if there’s an issue they feel strongly about. I started speaking up about disabilities because I know what it’s like to have one and be treated differently because of it. 
When I was little, I wondered why toy figures didn’t look like me. So at 10 years old, I started a petition to ask a major toy company to consider offering limb-different options. I spoke about it on the news, and I even did a TEDx Talk about it. After more than a year of using my voice, I got to work with a design team on a Barbie doll that uses a prosthetic leg. That experience showed me that the more I spoke up, the more changes I might be able to make.
Sometimes, being an activist is stepping up and speaking up in a more public way than you normally would. Taking risks is a big part of being an activist. 
Your age doesn’t matter. I know so many kids who are fighting for change. Mari Copeny, 13, is making sure our country has safe drinking water. Naomi Wadler was your age when she spoke at the national March for Our Lives rally to stop gun violence. 
Haven Coleman and Taylor Richardson are both teenagers. Haven is raising awareness of the climate crisis, and Taylor is making sure that girls of all races are included in STEAM education.
If you really care about an issue, learn as much as you can about it and find creative ways to speak up. Maybe it’s writing a letter to the editor of your local paper. Maybe it’s attending a protest with a parent or other trusted adult. Maybe it’s creating a club at your school or in your neighborhood, so you can work with other kids to unite your voices and make a change. 
You don’t have to do something as big as launching a new toy or speaking at a national rally. If you help even one person learn and change, you’ve made a big difference. —By Jordan Reeves
|||||Improv is short for improvisation. It is a type of theater. Everything is made up on the spot. The performers discover what is happening as they go. Nick Kanellis and Peter McNerney are expert improvisers. They teach improv classes. They also work with Story Pirates. They perform in shows together. What does it take to be a good improviser? Nick and Peter gave TFK some tips.

|||||The COVID-19 pandemic rages on. More than 90 million cases have been detected worldwide. At press time, the United States had seen about 23 million cases. Three million new cases had already been reported in 2021. In California’s Los Angeles County, about 1 in 5 people is testing positive daily. 
Vaccine delivery is underway. (See “Vaccine Trackers.”) But it’s not going smoothly. And health officials are worried about new variants, or versions, of the virus that causes COVID-19.
New Variants
One new variant is more contagious than the original. But it doesn’t seem to cause worse symptoms. 
The variant was first found in the United Kingdom (U.K.) in September. It has now been detected in at least eight states in the U.S. “We’re likely to see this increase,” Greg Armstrong told the Washington Post. He works for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
STAY HOME On January 8, the area near King’s Cross, in London, England, is empty due to the U.K.’s third coronavirus lockdown.
Other variants were found in Japan, Nigeria, and South Africa. Officials say COVID-19 vaccines should work against variants. Scientists are studying this. Dr. Anthony Fauci leads the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. “We are taking [these variants] seriously,” he told TIME.
Delivery Issues
Distribution of the vaccines began in the U.S. in December. The government hoped to vaccinate 20 million people by January. Only about 9 million have gotten a dose so far. 
Some areas are getting fewer doses than promised. Others are getting more. There are strict rules about who can be vaccinated first. So some doses aren’t being used. They’re going bad and being thrown out. 
It will take a long time to vaccinate everyone. So people should continue to be careful. They should wear masks. They should wash their hands and stay six feet away from others. Dr. Rick Malley works at Boston Children’s Hospital. He told TIME for Kids that these actions “are so important, and can really reduce the number of cases.”
Stop and Think! What is the article’s headline? How does each section of the article support the headline? Why is the last paragraph important?
||||| We asked our readers to let us know what they’re doing, thinking, and feeling during the coronavirus pandemic. Some kids tell us they’re feeling sad or worried. But many of the letters we get are filled with hope. Read a few of them below. 
Would you like to share your story? If so, ask a parent or guardian to email us at tfkeditors@time.com. Your response might be featured in an issue of TIME for Kids.
I am positive that with everyone working so hard, we will defeat this virus. Things will return to normal eventually. Until then, we have to continue to be patient and thankful that we still have each other to get through this together —Maya M., 8, Rochester Hills, Michigan

I am bored. I can still go outside for now, but I wish I could go play with my friends. I miss being at school in person. It is much harder to do stuff on the computer. —Aiden H., 9, New Jersey

I spend time with my family, play games, and focus on my online learning. I think everyone should take this seriously and pray that this pandemic will be over soon. —Harman S., 9, Mishawaka, Indiana

I know we’ve been out of school for a while now and there’s still a long way to go. But I don’t think the coronavirus is going to stay forever. Scientists and experts are going to find a cure. —Alicia T., 9, Mukilteo, Washington
Responses have been edited for length and clarity.
|||||Election Day is November 3. Americans will go to the polls to vote for president of the United States. But millions have already cast their ballot. As of October 19, 29 million Americans had voted early, at a polling site or by mail. That’s six times as many as had voted at that point in the 2016 election. The numbers show that people are eager to vote. They also show that people are concerned about voting in person. That’s because of the pandemic.
This data is from the United States Elections Project, which is run by Michael McDonald. He’s a professor at the University of Florida. “This will be a high-turnout election,” he says.
Some states begin counting early votes as they arrive. Others wait for Election Day. The public will not see results before then. There are lots of mail-in ballots to count. So we might not know the winner right away.
Eddie Perez is an election expert. “Many people are passionate about participating in this election,” he told National Public Radio on October 18.
Stop and Think! What data does this article include? From what source does the author take this data? How does this information help you understand the election? 
|||||TFK Kid Reporter Donnell Meekins talks with scientist Ainissa Ramirez about how science has shaped our world, and how it might shape the future.
1. Why did you write The Alchemy of Us, a book about inventions?
As a materials scientist, I like making things. If you’re making an airplane, a materials scientist has to decide: What’s the best material for the job? So I am interested in other people’s inventions, because they can help me figure out how to make new things.
2. Why is it important to get people excited about science?
Most of the world’s big questions involve science. It makes our cell phones possible. Someday, we’ll have driverless cars. I think if people knew more about science, they would feel more connected to the world.
3. What’s one big problem science could help solve?
Climate change. We need better green technology, like solar cells, so we can use energy from the sun. We need better magnets, so that wind turbines can make energy more efficiently.
4. You’ve written about bias in technology. Can you explain what that is?
Here’s an example. Some water faucets have a light sensor that detects your hand. That sensor may be designed only for lighter skin. If I were to put my hand in front of it, water wouldn’t come out. Whoever made this sensor probably tested it on themselves and their friends. But they didn’t test it on someone who had a different color skin.
5. I read that a TV show inspired you to become a scientist. Can you talk about that?
The show was 3-2-1 Contact. It had kids solving problems. I said, “That’s what I want to do.”
6. Can science fiction teach us about science?
Science fiction can help us imagine the future. It can show us which way we should go with technology, and which way we should not go.
7. How is science related to other school subjects, like art or English?
We separate subjects in school, but in life, they are not separated. Science happens in history. It touches culture. Scientists can be influenced by art or writing.
8. Do you have advice for budding scientists?
If science class gets hard, tell a teacher. Everyone should get a shot at science. Find others who like science, and encourage one another. And when something breaks at home, ask your parents, “Can we take this apart?” Just to see how things work.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
|||||More than half a million votes were cast in the 2019 TIME for Kids Person of the Year poll. Read on to learn about the winner and to see who came in second and third place.
First Place: José Andrés
COOKING UP CHANGE The votes are in! TIME for Kids readers have chosen chef José Andrés as the winner of the 2019 TFK Person of the Year poll.
Andrés founded World Central Kitchen (WCK), a nonprofit group that has provided millions of meals to the survivors of disasters and other emergencies. He believes a good meal can change the world.
Most disaster-relief agencies focus on delivering the basics. Often, they give out prepackaged food. But as a world-class chef, Andrés does things differently. WCK meals are fresh and tasty. When TFK interviewed Andrés for an October cover story, he explained why: “A hot meal represents love.”
In September, Andrés and his team sprang into action when the Bahamas were devastated by Hurricane Dorian. It was the strongest storm to ever hit the islands. To date, WCK has served more than 2 million meals there.
In October, when wildfires rocked California, WCK was on the ground just 36 hours later. The team served people who were forced to evacuate their homes as well as firefighters battling the blazes.
Andrés’s current effort is in Albania. A major earthquake hit the European country in November. WCK is feeding people whose homes were destroyed. —By Shay Maunz
Runner-Up: The Octochamps
SPELLING SUPERSTARS Eight kids won the Scripps National Spelling Bee and changed the game for future competitors. On May 30, the soon-to-be Octochamps spelled perfectly, round after round. It’s often said contestants compete against the dictionary. “You are showing the dictionary who’s boss,” pronouncer Jacques Bailly told the finalists. Judges ran out of tough words and declared all eight kids winners. On December 10, Scripps announced that contest rules will change due to this outcome. —By Allison Singer
Third Place: Boyan Slat
OCEAN PROTECTOR Boyan Slat is a Dutch inventor. He founded The Ocean Cleanup in 2013, when he was 18. He created a system that traps plastic so it can be removed from the ocean. It is collecting trash in an area of the Pacific Ocean called the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. On October 26, Slat unveiled new technology called the Interceptor. He says it will clean plastic from rivers, stopping the waste “from reaching the oceans in the first place.” Interceptors are working in Indonesia and Malaysia. —By Karena Phan
|||||People build homes. A home keeps us warm and dry. It gives us a place to live. Animals also build homes. Read on to see how.  
Birds build nests. They use twigs and leaves. A nest keeps eggs safe. It keeps baby birds warm. Nests are often found in trees.  
Beavers build lodges. They use branches and mud. A lodge can be in a river, lake, or pond. Its entrance is underwater.
Ants build nests. Some build nests in trees. Others build underground. See the mound of dirt? It is an anthill. It is the opening of a nest.   
Rabbits live in burrows. Burrows are underground. Rabbits build them by digging. A burrow has chambers, or rooms. Chambers are connected by tunnels. As many as 20 rabbits can live together in a burrow. 
Coral reefs are home to many ocean creatures. Corals are tiny animals. A single coral is called a polyp. Their skeletons form a reef.

|||||Being a reporter is a big job. Jasmine Aguilera is a news reporter for TIME magazine. She writes stories on many topics. One of them is immigration. That is the movement of people from one country to another.
Here is how Aguilera does her work. First, she gets an assignment. Then she talks about it with an editor. After that, she reads, does research, and interviews people. Finally, Aguilera writes the article. An editor will review the article before it is published. 
“Some stories are hard to tackle,” Aguilera told TIME for Kids. But she likes sharing stories from people who might not have been heard from before. 
Aguilera has tips for kids who want to be reporters. “Ask a lot of questions,” she says. “Make sure you’re a good listener.”
|||||The surface of Mars is dry and rocky. There are no plants or animals on Mars. There’s not enough oxygen to breathe, either. Did the planet ever support life? NASA’s sending a robot to find out.
This NASA illustration shows astronauts on Mars. It shows what it might be like for people to live and work there.
The Mars 2020 rover is a robotic scientist. Its job is to look for clues that there was once life on the Red Planet. “Robots can help us answer big scientific questions,” Katie Stack Morgan told TIME for Kids. She’s a NASA scientist. “It’s hard to send humans to Mars. We’ve never done that before. But we know how to send robots.”
In this illustration, a rover gathers rocks that could hold clues to past life on Mars.
NASA will launch the rover next summer. In February 2021, it will land in a crater called Jezero. The crater was once filled with water. Tiny organisms called microbes may have lived there long ago.
The rover’s camera will look for rocks that may contain fossils. Its seven-foot arm will reach out to drill and scrape. Rock samples will go into tubes. Future missions may bring those tubes back to Earth for study.
The rover will carry a small helicopter to Mars. Scientists can control the flying machine from Earth.
The rover will also run experiments. It will test a small helicopter. This will tell scientists how flying vehicles would work in Mars’s atmosphere. The rover will also test a machine that makes oxygen. The oxygen could be used to burn rocket fuel. Astronauts who travel to Mars in the future could use the fuel to get back to Earth.
“Are we alone in the universe?” Stack Morgan asks. “Or could life have developed on another planet?” The Mars rover could help us find out.
Mars By the Numbers
A year is the time it takes a planet to go around the sun. A year on Mars lasts 687 days. That’s almost twice as long as a year on Earth.
You can jump about three times as high on Mars as you can on Earth. That’s because of the planet’s gravity.
Mars has two moons: Phobos and Deimos.
|||||1. Egg

Female frogs lay eggs. Tadpoles hatch from these eggs. It takes one to three weeks for the eggs to hatch. 
2. Tadpole 
A tadpole is born with a tail but no legs. The tadpole lives in water. It uses gills to breathe.
3. Froglet 

A tadpole grows into a froglet. The froglet has legs for hopping. It has lungs to breathe. 
4. Frog
A froglet grows into an adult frog. An adult frog no longer has a tail. A new life cycle begins when a female frog lays eggs. 
|||||As the new year begins, the coronavirus pandemic rages on. More than 90 million cases of COVID-19 have been detected worldwide.
At press time, the United States alone had seen about 23 million cases. Three million new cases had already been reported in 2021. In California’s Los Angeles County, about 1 in 5 people is testing positive daily. The numbers continue to surge. 
Vaccine distribution is underway. (See “Vaccine Trackers.”) But it’s taking longer than expected to get people vaccinated. And health officials are concerned about new versions of the virus.
New Variants
One new strain, or variant, of the novel coronavirus is proving to be more contagious than the original. It spreads more easily and quickly. Fortunately, this strain doesn’t seem to cause worse symptoms. It was first detected in the United Kingdom (U.K.) in September. Many countries have banned travel from the U.K. This is to keep the virus from spreading further.
STAY HOME On January 8, the area near King’s Cross, in London, England, is empty due to the U.K.’s third coronavirus lockdown.
It’s normal for a virus to mutate, or change, over time. Other variants of the virus that causes COVID-19 have been detected in Japan, Nigeria, and South Africa.
The U.K. variant has already been found in at least eight states in the U.S. “Over the next couple of months, we’re likely to see this increase,” Greg Armstrong told the Washington Post. He works for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Officials say existing COVID-19 vaccines should protect against new variants. Dr. Anthony Fauci, of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, says his teams are studying this. “We are taking [these variants] seriously,” he told TIME, “and will be following them closely to make sure we don’t miss anything.”
Distribution Issues
Distribution of COVID-19 vaccines began in the U.S. in December. The government hoped to vaccinate 20 million people by January. To date, only about 9 million have gotten a dose. Some areas have received fewer doses than promised. Others received more. Because of strict rules about who must be vaccinated first, some doses have gone bad and had to be thrown away. 
Until a vaccine is available to everyone, people should continue to wear masks, wash their hands, and stay six feet from others. Dr. Rick Malley, of Boston Children’s Hospital, told TIME for Kids that these actions “are so important, and can really reduce the number of cases.”
Stop and Think! What is the article’s headline? How does each section of the article support the headline? Why is the last paragraph important?
|||||Write to us at tfkeditors@time.com to share your thoughts, ideas, and opinions on any topic. You might just see your words in a future issue. Throughout January, we’ll be sharing notes from kids about their heroes. Read some below. 
From Jocelyn McCarthy, 10, in Parker, Colorado:
Grocery store workers provide food and are always making sure we have enough. They have been trying their best to help us stay safe and make it through this pandemic. Every time I go to the store, I see how hard they work.

From Paris Mack, 10, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
:
I have two cousins who are in the armed forces. I feel very nervous when they are gone, but happy because they always bring gifts when they return. I am proud to have two heroes in my family to look up to.
From Logan Lai, 9, in Castro Valley, California:
My mom has to teach in outdoor classrooms and sometimes over Zoom. She has to get to school to set up even earlier than before. I think it’s hard to teach kids in the cold, and to remind kids about keeping a safe distance, sanitizing hands, and wearing masks.
TFK Kid Reporters Victoria Hanson and Jeremy Liew contributed reporting.
|||||There are many working satellites in space. We depend on them. They send information to the technology we use every day. But many other satellites are broken and still in orbit.
Illustrations from ClearSpace and Astroscale (inset) show the tools they hope to use to remove space junk.
Space junk is a problem. Debris floating around the Earth is dangerous. It puts future space missions at risk. Experts are working on solutions. Orbital debris is a type of space junk. It is any human-made object that has stopped working. But it continues to float around the Earth. It includes satellites that are not working. It also includes broken pieces of spacecraft.
This is a solar panel from the Hubble Space Telescope. It was damaged by orbital debris.
“You have a satellite or rocket stages put into space in the 1960s,” Vitali Braun told TIME for Kids. “And they’re still there.” Braun is an engineer at the European Space Agency.
Trash Trouble
Officials from Astroscale and the Japanese government pose in front of an ELSA-d satellite.
Companies are working to clean up orbital debris. One is called Astroscale. It’s based in Japan. It’s planning a mission called ELSA-d. The mission will use magnets. The magnets will collect debris. Another mission is led by a company called ClearSpace. It plans to launch a spacecraft. The craft will grab pieces of old rockets. 
Space junk comes in different sizes. This big chunk is from a rocket.
Governments are trying to help too. Some are updating their space guidelines. This is to limit the amount of debris created. Heather Cowardin works at NASA, in the United States. “This is not a single-country problem,” she says. “We have to work on this together."
|||||Robots are machines. Today, there are more robots than ever before. Some robots do work that people usually do. Read on to meet a few robot workers. 

Robot Chef
This machine makes burgers. It grinds meat. It cuts vegetables. It also grates cheese. The machine does all this without help from humans. Order up! 

Robot Teacher
This robot is named Nao. It teaches lessons to kids in school. It can even answer homework questions.

Robot Doctor
This robot performs surgery. Doctors help it do the job. Surgeries done with robots can be safer. Plus, patients often get better faster. 

Robot Officer
This is a police robot. It patrols the streets in China. The robot helps police officers. It can keep people safe. 

Did You Know?
This article was written by a human. (Hi, reader!) But articles can be written by robots, too. A computer program looks at information. Then it creates simple sentences. They sound as if they were written by a person. 
|||||Without a doubt, 2020 has been a historic year. We have experienced a pandemic, massive wildfires, and the loss of iconic leaders. 
But the year has also moved people to show gratitude and stand up for what they believe in. There were public displays of thanks for medical staff and essential workers. We saw protests for racial justice. And there was record-breaking voter turnout in the United States presidential election. 
Here are some of 2020’s historic moments. Which will you always remember?
January 2: Parts of Australia declare a state of emergency as BUSHFIRES burn across the continent. It is one of Australia’s worst fire seasons on record. By the end of March, 47 million acres had burned. At least 30 people died. Some 3 billion animals were killed or displaced, according to the World Wildlife Fund.
February 2: Demarcus Robinson and Cameron Erving, of the Kansas City Chiefs, bask in their team’s SUPER BOWL LIV victory. The Chiefs beat the San Francisco 49ers 31–20. It is the team’s first title in 50 years. 
February 6: President Donald Trump holds a newspaper that says he has been acquitted, or cleared, of IMPEACHMENT CHARGES. The previous day, a majority in the U.S. Senate voted not to remove the president from office. He had been charged with abusing his power and obstructing justice. The charges were made by the U.S. House of Representatives.  It voted to impeach the president on December 18, 2019. 
March 11: The World Health Organization (WHO) declares the CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK a pandemic. WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus says COVID-19 is likely to spread to every country in the world. The virus was first detected in December 2019. It has been linked to a live-animal market in Wuhan, China. 
April 6: Children hold up signs expressing GRATITUDE to medical staff and essential workers outside a healthcare center in New York City. By this time, more than a million people worldwide have been infected with the novel coronavirus.
May 25: GEORGE FLOYD is killed by a police officer during an arrest in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The event spurs demonstrations across the country and around the world. People come together to protest the unjust treatment of Black people by law enforcement. Here, a memorial honors Floyd’s life. People leave flowers and messages near the location where he died. 
May 30: SpaceX launches the DEMO-2 mission to the International Space Station from Cape Canaveral, Florida. It’s the first time American astronauts are taken into orbit by a private company. And it’s the first time NASA astronauts have lifted off from U.S. soil since 2011.  
June 3: CYCLONE NISARGA strikes near Mumbai, India. It’s the strongest cyclone to affect the area in more than 100 years. Winds of up to 68 miles per hour bent trees. About 10,000 residents are forced to evacuate their homes. No deaths are reported.
June 12: High school seniors celebrate GRADUATION with a drive-in ceremony in San Francisco, California. They practice social distancing by staying near their cars. The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the way people mark many of life’s milestones.
July 17: JOHN LEWIS dies at 80. The longtime advocate of civil rights served as a U.S. congressman for Georgia for more than 30 years. Here, Lewis’s body lies in state at the Georgia State Capitol on July 29. He is honored by members of his fraternity, Phi Beta Sigma.
August 16: The AUGUST COMPLEX wildfire starts in Northern California. It would become the biggest fire in the state’s history. The blaze destroyed an area larger than Rhode Island. This year, wildfires scorched more than 4 million acres in California. 
September 18: Supreme Court justice RUTH BADER GINSBURG dies at 87. She had served on the nation’s highest court since 1993. Here, Ginsburg’s former law clerks stand outside the Supreme Court building in Washington, D.C., for a memorial on September 23. Ginsburg is remembered as a champion of gender equality and women’s rights.
October 26: AMY CONEY BARRETT is sworn in as a U.S. Supreme Court justice. On September 26, President Trump nominated her to the seat left open by the death of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. The U.S. Senate voted to confirm Barrett a month later. She is the fifth woman to serve on the Supreme Court. 
October 27: The Los Angeles Dodgers win their first WORLD SERIES since 1988. They beat the Tampa Bay Rays 3–1, in game 6, at Globe Life Field, in Arlington, Texas. The Dodgers have seven championship titles.
November 3: People in Cranberry Township, Pennsylvania, line up to vote in the 2020 presidential election. VOTER TURNOUT breaks records across the U.S. The percentage of eligible voters casting a ballot is the highest since 1900.
November 7: In Wilmington, Delaware, President-Elect Joe Biden and Vice President-Elect Kamala Harris celebrate their victory in the 2020 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION. They will be sworn in on January 20, 2021. 
December 4:  Scientist and inventor GITANJALI RAO, 15, becomes TIME’s first-ever Kid of the Year. Here, Trevor Noah congratulates Rao during a Nickelodeon TV special. 

|||||What inspires someone to become a writer? For Jacqueline Woodson, it was butterflies. At age 7, she wrote poems about them. “I stapled together a book,” she told TIME for Kids. “I carried it around in my pocket until my grandma washed my pants.” 
 
Woodson always keeps a notebook nearby. She says just sitting down to write can lead to new ideas.
Since then, Woodson has written more than 30 books. They include picture books, novels, and memoirs. Today, Woodson is a famous writer. Many of her books have won awards. 

As a child, picture books were Woodson’s favorite. She enjoyed reading them well into the sixth grade. Teachers thought she struggled with reading. “I was really slow,” Woodson says. “I would read picture books over and over.”
But slow reading made her listen. She listened for the poetry in language. She paid attention to the way stories were put together. She was learning to read like a writer. 
Woodson holds her picture book The Day You Begin.
Woodson spends much of her time writing. She keeps a notebook handy to jot down story ideas.
 
Her picture book The Day You Begin was inspired by her great-great-grandfather. He was the only black student in his classroom in Ohio. “The book is about the many ways we walk into rooms and feel like we don’t belong there,” Woodson says.
Woodson tours the country and inspires young writers. Here, she talks with students in Chicago, Illinois.
Woodson hopes the book will help readers find the courage to share their experiences with others. “A good story gives the reader so much more than a story,” she says. “It makes you think. It changes you.”
Woodson is the National Ambassador for Young People’s Literature. The Librarian of Congress, Carla Hayden (right), granted her the honor at an event in Washington, D.C. It took place on January 9, 2018.
Woodson will serve as ambassador through 2019. Her job is to visit schools and libraries. She talks with kids about the value of reading.
|||||Who’ll become the Kid of the Year? The answer will be revealed December 4 on an hour-long TV special on Nickelodeon. Read about Ronak Suchindra, one of the top 20 finalists, below.
Ronak, 13, is from Chester Springs, Pennsylvania. He used to teach summer courses, including one on robotics, to kids in his neighborhood. But the coronavirus pandemic prevented him from continuing lessons in person. So in April, Ronak launched Kids Connect. It’s a free online platform where older kids teach younger ones different subjects, such as coding, chess, and origami. In just three months, Kids Connect engaged more than 600 young people in educational activities. “I’m very happy that an initiative aimed at teaching kids in my community is now teaching kids all over the world,” Ronak says.
This story was updated on November 20, 2020, to reflect a change to air date and network.
|||||Heimaey is a small island off the coast of Iceland. Each spring, more than a million Atlantic puffins visit Heimaey and its neighboring islands. They go there to breed.

The puffins build nests on seaside cliffs. When a puffling, or chick, hatches, it spends six weeks in its nest. Then it leaves the nest and flies to sea.
SEA PARROT An adult puffin perches on a cliff in Iceland.

Instinct tells pufflings to follow the light of the moon to the ocean. But the birds can be confused by Heimaey’s bright lights. They fly toward the lights instead of the moon. Many pufflings get lost. These lost birds can be hit by cars. Some are eaten by cats. The birds need help.
 
Children in Heimaey have teamed up to help puffins. Each breeding season, the kids form search parties. They carry flashlights and cardboard boxes. They are known as the Puffling Patrol.


“When you see a bird, you try to corner it and herd it into the box,” Eldur Hansen told TIME for Kids. He’s 15. Eldur has caught several birds this way. Nobody knows how the Puffling Patrol started. But each year, it rescues thousands of chicks.
The Puffling Patrol takes rescued puffins to the beach. But first, kids take the birds to an aquarium. There, the pufflings are weighed and tagged. This helps scientists learn more about puffins.
"K1_191129_Ancient History SP SS".
Puffins are a vulnerable species. That means they could soon become endangered. But Stephen Kress says the Puffling Patrol gives him hope. Kress is a conservationist. “People can make a difference,” he says.
|||||Stroll through a city. Shapes are everywhere you look! Take a tour with TFK to find shapes around the world. Do you have a favorite shape?
A pentagon has five sides.

This is the Pentagon. It is a building near Washington, D.C. If you fly over it, you can see all five sides.
A rectangle has four sides.

Look at this subway station in Singapore. There are many signs that give directions. Count all the rectangles you see. 
A square has four sides. 
Each side of a square is the same length. Look at this square sign in Italy. Are all the sides equal?
A triangle has three sides.

This is the Louvre. It is an art museum in Paris, France. The entrance is a pyramid. Each side of a pyramid is a triangle. How many triangles can you count? 
Try it!
Look around you. You can see many shapes if you look for them. What shapes do you see? Count the squares, triangles, rectangles, and circles.
|||||Rome is an ancient city. It is in Italy. Sports were a big part of life in ancient Rome. Sports are still important to Romans. Compare how Romans watched sports in the past with how they watch them now.
This drawing shows the Colosseum long ago. The photo shows its ruins today.
The Colosseum was built 2,000 years ago. Romans went there to watch gladiator battles. Gladiators were trained fighters. They wore armor and fought with swords. They were heroes to their fans. 
Beneath the arena were passages. Wild animals were kept there. Sometimes, gladiators fought them.
The Stadio Olimpico is where Romans go to watch the city’s soccer teams compete. The stadium has also hosted World Cup games and the Olympics.
Romans today enjoy soccer. The sport is known there as football. Games are played in a giant stadium. The Stadio Olimpico holds thousands of people.
 Rome has two soccer teams. They are rivals. Players charge up and down the field. They shoot for a goal. Fans cheer and wave flags. They sing songs. To them, the soccer players are heroes.
|||||In Bunheads, ballerina MISTY COPELAND tells the story of how she fell in love with dance. As a girl, Copeland was shy. She was afraid of talking in front of people. Dance helped her get past her fears. “Ballet gave me a language to communicate in a way that worked for me,” she told TFK. “Ballet allowed me to speak . . . through my body.”
|||||On October 5, Regal announced plans to temporarily close all of its theaters in the United States. Because of the coronavirus pandemic and a surge in home-streaming, many people are no longer going out to see movies. Instead, they’re watching films at home. Some Hollywood studios have even premiered major pictures, such as Disney’s live-action Mulan, on streaming services. 
Movie theaters are fun. But do we still need them? We asked TIME for Kids readers to weigh in on the question. Get your popcorn ready as you read what four of them had to say.
YES!
Ava Jung, 8
Paramus, New Jersey
There’s a difference between going to a movie theater and watching a movie at home. When people go to a theater, they can enjoy the movie without getting distracted by anything that they have to do at home. If theaters stay open, they can hire more people. Then new workers can earn money and buy stuff. That would help the economy recover.
NO!
Zachary Haubenstock, 10 
San Diego, California 
It’s excessive to pay to watch a movie on a big screen with a bunch of people, especially during the pandemic. You can watch a movie in the comfort of your home. You can wear your PJs. You can even have an outdoor movie night with friends and practice social distancing. Even without COVID-19, theaters just won’t make it due to evolving technology.
YES!
Finnian Rawsthorne, 11 
Grand Blanc, Michigan 
You might have forgotten how much fun it is, but when the pandemic ends, you’ll want to go to the movies. They have slushies, candy, and gigantic screens. They have nice chairs with cup holders. And you don’t have to clean up! Just because you can live without them doesn’t mean that you’d want to. If you had the chance to go to a movie theater and there was no COVID, wouldn’t you go?
NO!
Camille Chien, 10 
Sunnyvale, California
I like watching movies at home. I can watch lots of different movies from different cultures. Also, some movie theaters are filthy. Most people take their snacks into the theater to eat and watch at the same time. What if you eat and then touch some part of your chair, then continue eating? The germs on the chair could get into your mouth. That’s not good!
The Next Debate! Should cursive be taught in schools? Email your opinion to tfkeditors@time.com by January 3. Your response might be featured in an upcoming issue.
|||||In November, Hurricane Eta made landfall in Central America. The storm caused destruction from Panama to Florida. Two weeks later, Hurricane Iota arrived. It was even more powerful, pouring rain on places that were already flooded. President Juan Orlando Hernández, of Honduras, called Iota a “bomb” that would leave the region in tatters.
According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the 2020 Atlantic hurricane season was the most active on record. Iota was the 30th named storm to brew in the Atlantic since May, and the 13th to grow into a full-blown hurricane.
FLOOD ZONE On November 8, 2020, locals in Honduras evacuate a flooded area after Hurricane Eta.
Scientists say climate change is to blame. They don’t know if it’s causing more storms, but data seems to show it’s causing storms to be stronger and more destructive.
James P. Kossin is a climate scientist with the NOAA. He says the increase in greenhouse-gas emissions is changing how storms behave. “These storms have a human fingerprint on them,” he told TIME for Kids.
AFTERMATH The heavy rains of Hurricane Eta, in 2020, caused flooding and landslides in Guatemala.

Storm Science 
As the planet warms, so do its oceans. That’s where hurricanes begin. A storm draws its energy from ocean air. Warmer water provides more energy, which means higher winds. It also means heavier rain. (See “Hurricanes 101.”)
Increased energy is also causing hurricanes to get stronger faster. In August, Laura changed from a tropical storm to a strong hurricane in about a day. It slammed into Texas and Louisiana with winds of up to 150 miles per hour (mph). Laura’s storm surge—a wall of ocean water mainly caused by strong wind—reached 17 feet in places. It was among the highest ever recorded in Louisiana.
DAMAGE AND DEBRIS Hurricane Laura toppled power lines in Lake Charles, Louisiana, on August 27, 2020.

Hurricanes are also sticking around longer to do more damage. Rising temperatures are slowing down westerly winds, which blow constantly around the planet. That makes for storms that move more slowly. In 2017, Hurricane Harvey stalled for days, flooding parts of Texas. “That storm was devastating because it didn’t move,” Kossin says. “It just sat there. And it rained and rained.”
Protection Plans
Storms don’t affect everyone equally, says Dereka Carroll-Smith. She’s an atmospheric scientist at the National Institute of Standards and Technology. She analyzes data on communities that are most affected by hurricanes. This research saves lives by helping cities plan ahead.
HARD-HIT In October 2018, workers survey damage caused by Hurricane Michael in Mexico Beach, Florida.
Carroll-Smith says areas with a high number of elderly people who cannot easily be evacuated might require one emergency plan. A different plan might be needed in areas where many people live in mobile homes. Recent evacuations were complicated by the pandemic. Shelters couldn’t hold the usual number of people because of social-distancing measures.
“At some point,” Carroll-Smith says, “intense storms are going to be devastating to everyone, unless we make preparations now.”

Reducing greenhouse gases is the first step, Kossin says. “We can stop making it worse. Then we can put our efforts into adapting to the new climate we’re in.”
Hurricanes 101
A hurricane is a mass of clouds and thunderstorms rotating around a still center, or “eye.” Think of it as a giant engine that uses warm, moist air as fuel. There’s plenty of that in the Atlantic during hurricane season.
Winds must reach 74 mph before a tropical storm is called a hurricane. Then it’s rated from 1 to 5, depending on wind speed. A Category 5 storm churns at 157 mph or more, destroying homes and making places unlivable for weeks or even months.

|||||The majority of shoppers in the United States have been eating at home more often since the pandemic began. That’s according to a 2020 report from Acosta, a marketing company that studies consumer trends. This means people are cooking more, too. And one way to make homemade meals more delicious is science. 
“There’s loads of chemistry involved in how different ingredients react to one another,” Kristin Sargianis told TIME for Kids. She’s the deputy editor at America’s Test Kitchen Kids. “If you understand the science behind why things happen when you’re cooking,” she says, “you can take that knowledge and apply it and come up with your own recipe or tweak a recipe.” 
FOOD EXPERIMENT Kristin Sargianis teaches kids the secret to making the fluffiest popcorn.
Chef’s Creations
Professional chefs, such as Samin Nosrat, rely on science when creating recipes. Nosrat appears on Waffles + Mochi, a kids’ food show on Netflix. Currently, Nosrat is developing a pizza dough recipe for young chefs. 
Many bakers use a stand mixer to knead dough. Kneading develops gluten, a protein that helps dough swell into a light, chewy bread. But “a lot of people don’t have stand mixers,” Nosrat says. So her recipe calls for more water than other pizza dough recipes. This means less kneading is required and more gluten can develop on its own. 
Resting the dough for a while also helps gluten. “Time and water do the work of the kneading,” Nosrat says.
Say “Cheese!” 
Science can also be used to adjust a recipe that you’ve enjoyed for years. Take grilled cheese, for example. It’s delicious. But the cheese might not always melt smoothly.
Sargianis has a tip. To make a velvety grilled cheese, avoid using aged cheeses, like extra-sharp cheddar. Cheeses age by staying in a climate-controlled room for a long time. That develops their flavor. But as time passes, a cheese loses water through evaporation. The result often has a drier texture that doesn’t melt well. Sargianis says that a young cheese, like mozzarella, is “full of water and will be gooey” when melted. 
Whether making a favorite dish or trying a new one, getting curious about why foods taste and feel the way they do can make you a better cook. “The nice thing about cooking,” Nosrat says, “is that usually there is a ‘why’ to be explained.”

|||||The sky is dark. The clouds are heavy. The wind is strong. It’s storming! Storms happen all around the world. But not all storms are alike. Here are four types of storms. Have you been caught in a storm? 
Thunderstorm
During a thunderstorm, the sky is dark. Lightning flashes. Thunder cracks. Boom! Heavy rain falls.  
Hurricane
Hurricanes bring strong, swirling winds. They form over warm ocean water. Sometimes, they reach land. 
Blizzard

A blizzard is a dangerous snowstorm. Blizzards bring high winds and heavy snowfall. During a blizzard, it can be hard to see. Snow falls for hours. It can pile up high! 
Tornado
A tornado is a spinning funnel of wind. It can form when hot and cold air come together. Tornadoes are powerful. Like hurricanes, they can cause a lot of damage. 
Did You Know?
A meteorologist is a scientist who studies weather. He or she warns people when strong weather is coming. This helps people stay safe during storms.
|||||The Statue of Liberty is an American monument. She stands tall in New York Harbor. 

The statue was a gift from France in 1886. It was built in France. Then it was shipped across the ocean in pieces.
Lady Liberty is a symbol. She stands for freedom. Long ago, she welcomed immigrants who came to America by ship. 
Lady Liberty wears a crown. It has seven points. It also has 25 windows. Visitors can climb into the crown and look out. 

Millions of people visit the Statue of Liberty each year. They come from around the world.

Did you know? 
Lady Liberty’s crown has seven rays. They stand for the seven continents and seas. 
The statue stands 305 feet tall.
The date on her tablet is July 4, 1776. That is our country’s birthday!
The statue has 354 steps.

|||||In February, NASA’s rover landed on Mars. Its name is Perseverance. Its job is to find signs of past life.

Tiny life-forms called microbes might have lived on Mars. That would have been more than 3 billion years ago. The planet was warm then. Water flowed into a lake. Now the lake is dried up. The planet is cold. But fossils of microbes might be found in rocks.
Perseverance uses lasers and drills to search for fossils. And it has a helper. A helicopter named Ingenuity could fly above the old lake. It will show NASA whether flying machines can be used on future missions. 
|||||One night, Christine Carter was sitting with her daughter in her lap. They were making a list: “Three Good Things of the Day.” Her daughter, who was braiding Carter’s hair, said, “Mom, this is going to be one of my three good things.”
Making a list was their way of reflecting on things they were grateful for. It’s a technique based in an area of research known as the science of happiness.
Carter is a sociologist at the University of California, Berkeley. She studies how schools and families can foster positive emotions and help kids lead healthier lives. This has become especially important during the pandemic, which has made many kids feel isolated. “Most kids don’t know this, but they’re grieving,” Carter told TIME for Kids. “They’ve missed out on important events. Many have lost people in their lives.”
Finding the positive doesn’t mean never feeling sad. It means understanding that feeling sad is natural, and that it passes more quickly if we can notice the good things in life. “We can practice bringing happiness to ourselves,” Carter says. “It’s like putting money in the bank. We can be ready to cope with hard times in the future.”
How to Be Happy
A key step toward happiness is learning how to describe emotions, even negative ones. Feeling sad? It’s better to embrace the emotion than to ignore it. Ask yourself: “What do I feel? Where in my body do I feel it? What color or shape is it?”
Expressing gratitude is also important, Carter says. Let’s say you often bicker with a brother or sister. Reflect on why you’re grateful for that person. Remember the good times. This makes it likely you’ll get along better tomorrow.
But the surest way to happiness is kindness. Helping others gives life purpose, Carter says. Even more, “We feel a sense of connection and love,” she adds. “Our nervous system feels safe when we’re connected with other people.”
Take Care
Here are some things you can do every day to be happier.
Take deep belly breaths.
Write down things you’re grateful for.
Talk with a friend.
Do something kind for someone.
Exercise, eat well, and get enough sleep.
|||||
A pulley uses a wheel and a rope, cord, or chain. Pulleys help us lift things that are heavy. Here are some examples of pulleys at work.
Setting Sail

Sailboats use pulleys. Pulleys help raise the sails, turn the boat, and more. 
Heavy Load
Pulleys help us build. Cranes use pulleys. So do other construction machines. 

Safety First
A rock climber wears a harness. It is attached to a person with a pulley. This helps keep the climber from falling if he or she slips. 

Top of the Slopes

A ski lift takes people up ski slopes. It is made of many pulleys. One of them is huge! Take a look at it here. 
Did You Know?
This is what a pulley looks like up close. Pulleys make it easier to lift heavy things. Can you think of other everyday examples of pulleys? 
|||||
The United States has a flag. It’s red, white, and blue. Other countries have flags too. Each flag is different. Each one uses colors, shapes, and patterns. Take a look at a few flags here.
Flags use SHAPES. Study the three flags below. What shapes do you see?
This is a FAMILY of flags. They’re from countries in South America. These flags have something in common. What is it?
Many flags have a PATTERN. A pattern is a repeated design. This is the flag of Uganda. That’s a country in Africa. Do you notice a pattern?
Some flags use SYMMETRY. Fold a flag in half. Do both sides look the same? This girl is holding the flag of the country of Georgia. Do you see the symmetry?
There’s a proper way to fold an American flag. It takes 13 folds. When complete, the flag is folded into a triangle. Only the stars are showing.
|||||In 1992, Mae Jemison was the first Black woman astronaut to travel into space. In February, she published a new edition of Find Where the Wind Goes. It’s a book for young readers. She spoke with TFK Kid Reporter Bellen Woodard about her life and book.
1. What’s it like being in space?
One thing that is really interesting is being able to go around the Earth every 90 minutes and see this amazing planet. And I did a lot of work in space. I think people miss that astronauts do a lot of work, even if they’re not training for a mission.
2. What’s the most fun thing about being in space?
Being able to float. It’s such a silly feeling! 
3. What’s your book about?
It’s about how to navigate life and become the person you intend to be. [Life is] not about a job. It’s not what you study. It’s the kind of person you want to be inside. For me, that was always about exploration, creativity, and making a difference.
4. I noticed that you use wind in the title and as a common theme in your book. Why?
It comes and it goes, and it leads you along a path. There are different types of wind. Some are very soft and subtle—they’re a little breeze. Some are strong. Those are some of the ways I think of the events in my life.
5. On the book’s cover, you’re wearing one feather earring. Why?
When I arrived in New York City for medical school, I had a feather in my ear. I used to wear just one feather earring in college a lot. 
6. You’ve written that you love cats and feel they have superpowers. Can you explain?
When I was growing up, we always had pets. We had dogs and cats. We even had a rabbit. But what I loved about cats was how self-confident they were. Cats have these superpowers of being able to be self-confident, resilient, and flexible.
7. I heard someone say that, instead of asking kids what they want to be when they grow up, adults should ask what they want to change. What do you think?
Let me say this: There were experiences I had growing up when I questioned the fairness of society. They helped me think about making sure people are included. That’s guided me in my work. The more people’s perspectives you have, the better the ideas that come through.
8. I want people to be included too. What do you want to say to kids who don’t feel included?
Be who you are. Use your talents and don’t shrink!
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
|||||A new statue was unveiled this year in Central Park, in New York City, to mark the 100th anniversary of the 19th Amendment to the United States Constitution. In 1920, that amendment gave women the right to vote.
The monument features Sojourner Truth, Susan B. Anthony, and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. They were key figures in the fight for women’s voting rights­. The sculpture was commissioned by the group Monumental Women. Brenda Berkman is its education director. “Every year, 42 million people visit Central Park from all over the world,” Berkman told TIME for Kids. “If you want to put a statue anywhere, you put it in the park.”
Artist Meredith Bergmann created the sculpture. She wanted to capture these women striving toward a common goal. “They knew each other, worked on the same causes, and spoke at the same conventions,” Bergmann says. Each is shown doing what she did best. “Truth is speaking, Anthony is organizing, and Stanton is writing,” Bergmann adds. She calls these activities “the ingredients of activism.”
But the history behind the scene is more complicated. And for some people, the statue invites a closer look into civil rights history. 
A Closer Look 
Evette Dionne is the author of Lifting as We Climb, a middle-grade book about Black women in the suffrage movement. Dionne points out that Anthony and Stanton, who were white, fought for the abolition of slavery. But they also worked with people who supported segregation. And they did not defend the right of Black people to vote. Their decisions, Dionne says, “caused harm to Black people for generations.”
Black women have long taken the lead in civil rights movements. That’s why Truth was added to the monument, Bergmann says. The original plan included only Anthony and Stanton, who should be honored, “even as we recognize their flaws and mistakes,” Bergmann says. “The people we admire looked beyond their own life and tried to fight for great ideals.”
The statue is just a step toward learning more about history, Dionne says. She offers this advice: “I encourage kids to think, ‘When I am being told this history, who is missing? And how can I find out more about those people?’”
|||||Jailynne Garcia, 10, loves BTS. They are a music group from South Korea. “I like how funny they are,” Jailynne told TIME for Kids. “I like that they’re good dancers and singers. And I like that they help people.” 
BTS has seven members. They are J-Hope, Jimin, Jin, Jung Kook, RM, Suga, and V. Together, they sing, dance, and perform. Their songs are mostly in Korean. But they have become international superstars. Their videos have been viewed billions of times. Their albums have hit the top of the charts. 
BTS perform live in New York City’s Times Square on New Year’s Eve 2019.
Fans like Jailynne are members of the BTS ARMY. BTS are glad their fans feel connected to them. “That was our goal, to create this empathy that people can relate to,” Suga said. He was interviewed by TIME in 2018.

Pay It Forward
BTS give back to others. They work with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) on a big charity project. The group has raised more than $2 million for UNICEF. This money helps protect children and teens.
BTS appear with UNICEF’s Lilly Singh (center left) and Henrietta H. Fore.
Jailynne and her mom are inspired by BTS. They joined a BTS fan group called One in an ARMY (OIAA). It leads projects to help people in need. OIAA has raised money for many causes. Most people donate just a dollar. But it goes a long way to help others!
BTS member RM gives a speech at the United Nations, in New York, on September 24, 2018
 
Jailynne hopes the BTS ARMY will grow. She hopes it will continue to do good deeds, too. “The more people that are doing this, the more happiness it brings to others. And a bigger change there is in the world,” she says. 
Growing Good
One way the BTS ARMY gives back is by planting trees. Some fans donate to One Tree Planted. This group plants trees around the world. The BTS ARMY has raised more than $28,000 for One Tree Planted.
In Malaysia, the fan group BTS for Charity formed the Green Namu Project. The group met in November. They planted trees to celebrate the birthdays of three BTS members.
|||||On April 18, the United States reached a milestone. About 130 million adults had gotten at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine. That’s half of all the adults in the country. This data comes from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Of the 130 million, 84 million people are fully vaccinated. Some got two shots of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine. Others got one shot of Johnson & Johnson. At this rate, the U.S. could vaccinate 70% of its population by mid-June. That might be enough to control the virus.

There’s still work to be done. A recent Associated Press-NORC poll found that 25% of U.S. adults are unwilling to get vaccinated. But the number of willing people has been rising. More are becoming eligible, too. Anyone 16 or older can get a vaccine.

“We’re making tremendous progress,” President Joe Biden said on April 18. “But we’re still in [a] race against this virus, and we need to vaccinate tens of millions more Americans.”
Stop and Think! What information does the photo provide? How does the photo support the information in the article?
|||||On November 30, the drug company Moderna asked the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for emergency approval of its COVID-19 vaccine. If the FDA agrees, enough vaccine for millions of people could be ready by the end of the year.
Moderna is the second company to ask for emergency approval. That would mean a drug could be used before testing is complete. Pfizer made its request on November 20. Its vaccine was approved in the United Kingdom on December 2.
In the U.S., cases of COVID-19 are on the rise. Recently, the nation has had more than 160,000 new cases per day, and more than 1,400 daily deaths. Health officials say the numbers could climb even higher as a result of Thanksgiving travel. At press time, the novel coronavirus had infected nearly 14 million people in the U.S. More than 268,000 had died. Worldwide, 63 million people had caught the virus. Nearly 1.5 million had died.
Before the FDA approves a vaccine, scientists will decide if there is enough evidence that it works and is safe. A late phase of Moderna’s vaccine trials began in July. It involved 30,000 people. The company reports that its drug is 94.1% effective at preventing COVID-19. It is 100% effective at preventing severe cases of the disease, Moderna says.
IN THE LAB A scientist prepares a blood sample during a Moderna vaccine trial in August.
Tal Zaks is Moderna’s chief medical officer. He says he became emotional when he saw the data. “Just in the trial, [we] have already saved lives,” Zaks told the Associated Press. “Just imagine the impact then multiplied to the people who can get this vaccine.”
If the FDA gives emergency approval to the vaccine, Moderna says it will have 20 million doses ready for the U.S. by late December. That’s enough for 10 million people, since each person will need two doses. The first to be vaccinated will be healthcare workers and the elderly. Pfizer expects to have doses for 12.5 million Americans.
It will be at least spring before any vaccine reaches the general U.S. population.
Stop and Think! Does the author use data to tell this story? What does data tell us about the COVID-19 vaccine and why it is needed? Which numbers stand out to you, and why?
|||||There is a problem with the water in Newark, New Jersey. The water has toxic levels of lead. It is unsafe to drink. In mid-August, Newark began providing bottled water to 15,000 homes.  
Newark’s pipes are old and worn down. Lead from the pipes has gotten into the water. Officials say they are trying to fix the problem. But Newark residents are angry. They are protesting. They are demanding clean water to cook with and drink. Phil Murphy is the governor of New Jersey. He spoke at an August 14 press conference. “Access to clean and safe drinking water is a fundamental right,” he said. 
|||||The New Year is celebrated all around the world. Here are some New Year traditions.
Into the Sea

Running into the ocean is a New Year’s Day tradition in the Netherlands and Canada.
A Sweet Start 

In Germany, it is a tradition to give out candy pigs. In Turkey, people eat pomegranate fruit.
Festive Fruits

People in Spain, Peru, and other countries eat 12 grapes on New Year’s Eve for good luck.
Shall We Dance?

In Austria, people dance the waltz. In the Bahamas, they dress up and dance in a parade.
|||||At first, November 25 seemed like an ordinary day for Tyler Gordon. But that changed when the 14-year-old artist got an unexpected phone call. Who was it? Kamala Harris, who was then vice president-elect of the United States. 
Tyler had shared a video on Twitter that showed him painting a portrait of Harris. The video went viral. It caught Harris’s eye. She called Tyler to praise his work. “It’s a very special thing to be an artist like you are,” Harris told him. 
Tyler, who is from San Jose, in California’s Bay Area, has been painting since he was 10.
He was born deaf. At 5, he had surgery. It gave him some hearing. But he has been bullied at school because of a speech impediment. Art enables him to move past these hardships. “My art gives me power to be myself,” Tyler says. 
Tyler’s talent has gotten people’s attention. He was chosen as a finalist for TIME’s 2020 Kid of the Year. Then TIME commissioned Tyler to paint LeBron James. The resulting portrait appeared on the cover of the magazine. 
PAINTING A LEGEND In December 2020, TIME selected LeBron James as Athlete of the Year and asked Tyler Gordon to paint his portrait. The painting became the magazine’s cover—and drew this response from James.
Tyler is known for painting portraits of people who inspire him. That’s why he painted Harris. He admires her ability to break barriers. She’s the first woman, the first Black person, and the first person of South Asian descent to become a U.S. vice president. 
After talking to Harris, Tyler painted another portrait. His subject was Joe Biden. Biden was then president-elect. Tyler looks up to Biden since Biden has struggled with a stutter, too. 
Tyler is now a TFK Kid Reporter. He shared a few words about Harris, Biden, and that exciting day in November. Read what he had to say below.
In His Own Words 
Getting a call from Kamala Harris was the most exciting thing that has ever happened to me. It was a typical day, and my mom and I were just sitting down and talking about painting. All of a sudden, her phone started ringing. The call was from a private number. She answered it, and we heard, “Hi, it’s Kamala Harris!”
My legs went weak and my hands started to sweat. I didn’t know what to do. My smile went from ear to ear, and I felt all warm inside. I couldn’t believe I was actually talking to Kamala Harris and that she had called me. She told me how proud she was of me and how much she loved the painting of her. She even said that when she comes to town, she wants to meet me! 
TYLER AND KAMALA Tyler Gordon shows off his painting of Kamala Harris.
I’m so inspired by Kamala Harris. She has overcome so many obstacles in her life. She’s the first Black U.S. vice president and also the first female U.S. vice president. She’s from the Bay Area, and I know if she can come from here and do amazing things, then so can I. 
Joe Biden is inspirational to me too, because he has a stutter, just like me. He’s not embarrassed or afraid of what people think about the way he talks. He gives me the confidence to speak and not worry about what people think. 
|||||Playing outside is important for the mind and body. But not all kids have a safe place to play. That’s where KABOOM! comes in. Since 1996, Kaboom! has built or fixed up more than 20,000 playgrounds. Kids and adults help with construction. They even help design the space.
James Siegal runs Kaboom! “Play is not a luxury,” he says, “but an essential part of childhood.” 
|||||People use money to pay for things. There are many different ways to do this. Long ago, people used animals and objects to pay. Today, people use smartphones and other methods. Which of these ways to pay have you seen?
Spend Cash
This girl is paying with cash. Cash comes in paper bills and metal coins. Each type of bill or coin is worth a different amount.
Use a Card
People can pay with a credit card. Credit cards let people borrow money from a bank. They need to pay it back later.
Write a Check 

You can pay with a check. It is a piece of paper that you fill out and give to someone. The money will come out of your bank account. Don’t forget to sign your name!
Tap Your Phone

Some people pay with a smartphone. It’s like using a credit card. People can tap their phone at a store’s register. This transfers the money. Easy!
Did You Know?
Some stores no longer accept cash. You can pay with a credit card or a phone. Do you think that one day, we won’t use cash at all?
|||||February is Black History Month. Here are three new books that honor the contributions of Black Americans. Which one would you like to read first?
Sprouting Wings 
Sprouting Wings, by Louisa Jaggar and Shari Becker, tells the true story of James Herman Banning. He was a pilot who built his own plane. In 1932, Banning became the first Black pilot to fly across the United States. At the time, most pilots didn’t look like him. Jaggar told TIME for Kids that she hopes readers are inspired by his story. “Banning wasn’t afraid to have a really big dream,” she says. “For a crazy, really good dream to come true, [it takes] hard work, and you have to really want it.” —By Karena Phan 
Legacy
Nikki Grimes grew up in Harlem, in New York City. She gave her first poetry reading at the Countee Cullen Library, which was named for a poet of the Harlem Renaissance. That was a time in the 1920s and 1930s when Black art flourished in Harlem. “I grew up with the poetry of that era,” Grimes told TFK. “But I noticed how few of the Harlem Renaissance poets I came across were women. So I set out to find them.” Legacy features these women’s poems. Their words are also used to create new poems. “I was able to build a bridge between the past and the present,” she says.	—By Constance Gibbs
VIP: Lewis Latimer 
Lewis Latimer was a Black inventor born in 1848. He’s best known for improving the lightbulb to make it more affordable. VIP: Lewis Latimer, by Denise Lewis Patrick, is about his life. The book also explores the challenges faced by Black inventors. “Black men and women have been creating—and making history—for centuries,” Patrick told TFK. “It gives me a sense of pride to learn of the many ways African Americans, in particular, have contributed to our country. American history is all our history.” —By Rebecca Katzman
|||||TFK Kid Reporter Abby Rogers spoke with Kelly Marie Tran, who plays Raya in the new animated Disney movie Raya and the Last Dragon. Catch the movie on Disney+ beginning March 5.
1. Can you tell me about Raya and the Last Dragon?
It’s a movie about friendship and learning how to trust. There are a lot of incredible characters, including Raya.
2. How do you feel your character, Raya, changes what it means to be a Disney princess?
People are going to see a lot of things they don’t expect from a Disney princess. Raya is a fighter. There are a lot of action sequences in this movie that people are going to get amped by. It’s really cool to see her and the martial arts that she is a master at.
3. What was your favorite part of acting in this movie?
My favorite part was getting to open the door to that world. I am such a huge fan of Disney animated movies. To be part of one feels crazy to me.
4. Why is representation important in movies?
It is really important to see yourself in stories. An entire team of people went to Southeast Asia to study the cultures there. They were able to bring back all of this incredible knowledge. All of that is seen in the movie. Disney has done an incredible job of making sure that the representation of that part of the world is accurate and true.
5. What do you hope people take away from this movie?

I hope that people will take away that the more we can get rid of our biases about what a certain type of person is like, the more we can work together toward a common good—and the better the world will be. That’s the message.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
|||||Elevators can feel like magic. Step inside. Select your floor. Poof! The elevator quickly takes you where you want to go. 
 
But an elevator doesn’t run on magic. It’s a machine. And it’s made up of several smaller machines. These machines work together to make the elevator move. An electric motor powers the elevator. A pulley system hoists the car up and down through an elevator shaft. The controller is the “brains” of the elevator. When you push a button, the controller tells the car which floor to go to.  
These mechanics are standing in an elevator shaft. They are fixing the elevator.

Elevators are an important part of the modern world. “They make taller buildings possible,” Dot Mynahan told TIME for Kids. She works for the Otis Elevator Company. “Elevators are also important for handicapped people,” Mynahan says. “They make buildings more accessible to everyone.”
This glass elevator gives passengers a ride with a view.

The first passenger elevator was installed in 1857, in New York City. Since then, technology has improved. Elevators have become more energy- efficient. They are also much faster. Have you heard of the Empire State Building, in New York City? Its elevators whisk visitors from the ground floor to the 86th floor in less than a minute. 
What’s next for elevators? “The possibilities are endless,” Mynahan says.    
Most elevators run with the help of a simple machine called a pulley. A pulley is a wheel with a cord around it. An elevator car is attached to one end. A counterweight is attached to the other. Take a look!
A Historic Moment
Elisha Graves Otis was an inventor. He created the world’s first safety elevator. In 1854, he gave a daring demonstration of how it worked. Crowds gathered at the World’s Fair, in New York. Otis rode his elevator high into the air. A man cut the rope that was lifting it. The crowd gasped. The elevator should have fallen, but it stayed in place. “All safe, ladies and gentlemen,” Otis said, “all safe.”
|||||The first episode of Emily’s Wonder Lab, on Netflix, is about things that glow. In an experiment, host Emily Calandrelli teaches a group of kids how to make fluorescent paint. “Oh, no, no! I put too much [cornstarch] in,” one of them exclaims. “Don’t worry about it,” Calandrelli tells him. “Remember, science is all about trial and error.”
Calandrelli wants kids to know that failure is an important part of the scientific process. “Failure is not a bad thing,” she told TIME for Kids. “It’s okay to mess up, because that means you’re learning something. And the whole point of science is to learn something.”
Calandrelli has four degrees in science and engineering. On her show, she shares her love of science with kids. Together, they conduct experiments and do activities. In one episode, they run across a pool of a gooey material called oobleck. In another, they create rainbow explosions. “Science is how we understand how the universe works,” Calandrelli says. “It’s like magic that you get to understand.”
|||||People love to go to the movies. They eat buttery popcorn and sit in cushy seats. They laugh with friends and family. They watch the latest films on the big screen. But many movie theaters are closed because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Some have stayed open. But ticket sales are down. More people are watching movies at home. With streaming services, they have lots of choices.
Movie theaters like this one in San Francisco, California, have been hurt by the pandemic.
Richard Greenfield is a media analyst. He spoke to TIME about the future of movie theaters. “Do people get so in the habit of watching Netflix that they don’t want to go back?” he asked. “I think that’s a real risk.”
Now Streaming
AMC is the largest theater chain in the country. “Closed” signs are posted at many of its theaters.
On December 3, Warner Bros. made an announcement. Its 2021 movies will stream at the same time they are shown in theaters. The company says this is good. It will help people who “aren’t quite ready to go back to the movies.”
In October, Regal cinemas temporarily closed all of its U.S. theaters because of the pandemic.
But theater owners aren’t happy. They say they’ll lose money. Why will people pay for a ticket when they can watch the movie at home?
Adam Aron is the head of AMC. It’s the largest theater chain in the United States. “The theater business is expected to recover” after the pandemic, he said on December 3. He says that AMC will act “aggressively” to keep its business.
Since the pandemic began, more people have been watching movies at home.
Cassidy Kelly will be glad to hear this. The 5-year-old lives in Hillsborough, New Jersey. Cassidy likes going to the movies with her family. Movie theaters are “different and bigger” than home, she told TIME for Kids. And the best part? “Big buckets of popcorn!”
|||||When people have big disagreements, they might need to go to court. Courts settle arguments. They make important decisions. In the United States, the top court is the Supreme Court. Let’s learn about it.
The Supreme Court is in Washington, D.C. That is our nation’s capital. The court was founded in 1789.
The Supreme Court is made up of nine judges. They are called justices. They are picked by the president. But the Senate must agree. Justices can serve for life.

The court settles disagreements. It hears about 80 cases each year. Its decisions affect the whole country. Here is what the courtroom looks like. Justices sit in a row at the front.
Supreme Court justices are experts on the U.S. Constitution. That is the set of rules that say how our country should be run.
Justices have a uniform. It is a black robe. Some justices dress up their robes. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg is known for her collars. Each has a special meaning for her.
|||||In the future, people might eat a new kind of meat. It will be grown in a lab.

Lab-grown meat starts off as tiny cells that are safely taken from animals. Scientists feed the cells nutrients. The cells grow and multiply to form meat. 

Challenges Ahead
The world’s population is growing. People need to be fed. Lab-grown meat may be one solution.
Regular meat production requires a lot of cows. Cows release a gas that harms the environment. They also take up land. But lab-grown meat uses fewer cows and less land. “You only need the land for the facility” where the meat is made, Elliot Swartz told TIME for Kids. He works at the Good Food Institute. 
Lab-grown meat is not in stores. It costs too much money. The first lab-grown burger was made in 2013. It cost $300,000 to make! Also, the government still needs to make sure lab-grown meat is safe to eat. But one day, you may see it in your grocery store. Would you like to try lab-grown meat?
|||||Welcome to Bamfield, a coastal community in British Columbia, Canada. Louis Druehl is steering The Kelp Express along the shore. For 51 years, the boat has taken him to Kelp Bay. There, ropes of seaweed are growing beneath the water’s surface.
COASTAL VILLAGE Bamfield, in British Columbia, Canada, sits at the edge of the water.
Known as the Kelp Grandfather, 84-year-old Druehl began growing kelp, a brown seaweed, in 1982. Seaweed is his life. He has studied it, farmed it, cooked it, and written an award-winning book about it.
Over the years, Druehl has seen interest in seaweed rise and fall. But as climate change affects the planet, the world is turning to seaweed as a possible solution. “People have discovered seaweed,” he told TIME. “They’ve discovered us.”
KELP GRANDFATHER Louis Druehl, 84, is a kelp farmer in Bamfield, British Columbia.
Super Seaweed
Seaweed can play a huge role in fighting climate change. It is used to create natural fuel and renewable plastics. It helps marine ecosystems thrive. And it absorbs carbon from the environment.
People think of forests as the best defense against climate change. But some researchers say seaweed is a better solution (see “Not Perfect”). Unlike trees, seaweed doesn’t need fertilizers or fresh water. It grows faster than trees do. And it doesn’t require any land. Katie Lebling is with the World Resources Institute. “When we’re planting trees, we need to make sure it does not take away that land from food production,” she says. “That is not an issue with seaweed.”
DRIP DRY Rae Hopkins, Druehl’s cofounder at Canadian Kelp Resources, in Bamfield, hangs seaweed up to dry in 2019.
Seaweed could also become a key global food source. Many worry about the environmental impact of eating meat. Could seaweed farms provide enough protein for the world? Carlos Duarte, a professor of marine ecology, thinks so. “When you look at how we are going to feed the world population by 2050, in a way that doesn’t harm the environment, there is only one pathway,” he says. “Seaweed farming.”
New Opportunities
In the past decade or so, global seaweed production has doubled. Interest in seaweed as a food source and climate-change solution is booming. In British Columbia, seaweed farming is becoming popular. This means job opportunities, including work for people from First Nations communities, who are among the indigenous, or native, people of Canada. Unemployment has forced many of them to leave the area to find work. “We want people to have a job, so that they can come home,” says Larry Johnson, president of Nuu-chah-nulth Seafood, a group that works with First Nations communities.
For thousands of years, First Nations people have farmed on land and in the ocean. “Seaweed farming . . . helps us create economies of our own that align with our traditions,” Johnson says. “Our role has always been to connect with the land and repair it.”
UNDERWATER FOREST At a seaweed farm, long ropes of seaweed grow under the water’s surface.
A blossoming seaweed industry could bring jobs to many people, including those who lost work as a result of the pandemic. Druehl’s daughter is one of them. He’s trying to persuade her to come work with him in Kelp Bay. He says, “I keep telling her we’ve got a nice kelp business out here!” But even if she isn’t interested in the family tradition, there’s a long line of seaweed farmers waiting to learn from the Kelp Grandfather.
Not Perfect
Seaweed might fight climate change. But it isn’t without its risks. If it isn’t harvested, it can rot and release carbon back into the air or water. Growing too much of it could also affect the amount of light that reaches species living deeper in the water. That would be dangerous for underwater ecosystems.
Halley Froehlich is an assistant professor at the University of California, Santa Barbara. She says seaweed “can be a part of the solution” to climate change, but it’s not a perfect solution on its own.

|||||When the pandemic hit, Maya Shukla got baking. “I didn’t think I’d bake every day,” the 12-year-old told TIME for Kids. “But I really liked it!” Maya started a blog, posting daily recipes at The Bored Baker from her home, in Bellevue, Washington. “Sometimes, I think of an idea and try to make it,” Maya says. “Or I find recipes, or use my grandma’s or mom’s.” Maya wants all kids to join the “bored revolution” by taking up a hobby. “Don’t be afraid to try something new,” she says. Check out Maya’s biscotti recipe below. 
Cranberry-Orange Biscotti
Ingredients:

1-1/2 cups all-purpose flour

1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 egg
 
1/3 cup orange juice
2 tablespoons orange zest

1/4 cup chopped dried cranberries

Steps:
Preheat your oven to 350°F and line a baking sheet with parchment paper. In a bowl, whisk the flour, sugar, and baking powder together. Stir in the egg, orange juice, orange zest, and cranberries. Knead the dough and form a ball.
Form the dough into a 12-inch-by-4-inch rectangle. Bake for 30 minutes.
Cool for 5 minutes and cut 1-inch-thick slices from the biscotti block. Lay the slices on the parchment paper and bake for another 20 to 30 minutes. You can tell that the biscotti are done when the middle is crunchy.
YUM! TFK art director Stephen Blue baked these with his wife, Asya. They give Maya’s recipe two thumbs up!
Stay safe and always cook with an adult.
|||||A United States presidential election is coming up. On Tuesday, November 3, voters will go to the polls. Some people will vote by mail even sooner. Whom will they pick to lead the country for the next four years? 
There are two main candidates for president of the United States. One is Donald Trump. He is the current U.S. president. The other is Joe Biden. He hopes to become the nation’s 46th president. 
President Donald Trump speaks at a news conference in New Jersey.
Donald Trump belongs to the Republican party. He won the presidential election in 2016. He is the 45th U.S. president. Trump wants to be reelected. He hopes to serve a second term in the White House. 
Joe Biden gives a speech in Pennsylvania in July.
Joe Biden belongs to the Democratic party. He was vice president. He served for eight years. He worked with President Barack Obama. That was from 2009 to 2017. Now Biden wants to take on the country’s top job. 
Trump walks offstage after giving a speech to factory workers in Ohio in August.
On the Campaign Trail
Both Trump and Biden are meeting with voters. They are giving speeches. Each is trying to win votes. During most presidential campaigns, candidates campaign in person. This year is different. That’s because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Large campaign events have happened online. There have been smaller events in person. The Democratic National Convention and Republican National Convention were held remotely. 
Americans must be 18 years old to vote. But everyone should pay attention to the election. That includes you! 
Election Words
campaign: a series of actions to meet a goal; a series of actions that a candidate takes in order to win an election
candidate: a person who is running for office

convention: a big meeting at which people from a political party pick their candidates for office

front-runner: a candidate who is in the lead
nominee: a person chosen by a political party to be its candidate
political party: an organized group of voters with similar ideas and goals for a country and its government 
polls: surveys of groups; places where people vote
|||||Looking for something to read? Here, TFK Kid Reporters review four noteworthy books of 2020.
When Stars Are Scattered
This graphic novel by Victoria Jamieson and Omar Mohamed tells the true story of two brothers who live in a refugee camp in Kenya. Omar and his younger brother, Hassan, have fled a war in their home country of Somalia. I find this book to be very inspirational. Even though they are kids, the boys deal with many adult problems. The brothers stick together, no matter what life throws at them. —By TFK Kid Reporter Miguel Madero
Bee Fearless: Dream Like a Kid
Mikaila Ulmer is a 15-year-old entrepreneur. She’s created a  healthy version of lemonade made with honey, which she sells all over the country. She donates a portion of the proceeds to bee conservation. In Bee Fearless, Mikaila shares her story and offers business tips. Readers will love learning how Mikaila’s business grew and what she’s doing to encourage the next generation of entrepreneurs. —By TFK Kid Reporter Abby Rogers
Condor Comeback
In Condor Comeback, nature writer Sy Montgomery follows conservationists as they care for endangered California condors. They’re the largest flying North American land birds and are revered in Native American culture. The text alternates between an exciting story and complex science that will appeal to nature lovers. Can scientists revive the condor population? Read Condor Comeback to find out! —By TFK Kid Reporter Jeremy Liew
Mañanaland
Eleven-year-old Max loves his abuelo’s stories of Mañanaland, a place where dreams come true. Max dreams of making the fútbol team and finding his missing mamá. When Max discovers a secret, he sets off for Mañanaland in search of answers. On the way, he gains something more precious than a spot on the team. I love this book by Pam Muñoz Ryan because each page is different and interesting. —By TFK Kid Reporter Afton Campbell
|||||On April 9, the United Kingdom’s royal family announced the death of Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. He was 99. 
Philip was the husband of Queen Elizabeth II. He served as a naval officer in World War II. He also devoted nearly 70 years to public service. He worked with many charities and organizations. 
Elizabeth and Philip married in 1947. They had four children. Their son, Prince Charles, is next in line to the throne. Prince William and Prince Harry are their grandchildren. 
World leaders have offered condolences. On Twitter, President Joe Biden wrote, “Jill and I are keeping the Queen and Prince Philip’s children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and the people of the United Kingdom in our hearts.”
|||||Trees are an important part of life on Earth. They create the air we breathe. They give us shade and fruit. They are a home for animals. There are many types of trees. But all trees have the same parts. Take a look.
1. The crown or canopy is the leafy top part of a tree. 
2. Trees are full of leaves. Leaves come in different sizes and shapes. A tree’s leaves soak up sunlight. This helps the plant grow. 
3. Branches grow from a tree’s trunk. Smaller twigs grow from the branches.
4. The trunk is the main body of a tree. A tree is covered with bark. The bark can be rough or smooth. It is like a tree’s skin. It protects the tree. 
5. A tree has a network of roots. They grow underground. They branch off in different directions. The roots carry water and food to a tree. They also keep a tree sturdy in the ground.
Did you Know?
Inside a tree trunk, you will see rings, or circles. They tell us how old the tree is. Each ring stands for a year. Can you count them?
|||||Close your eyes. Imagine the Earth millions of years ago. Giant reptiles ruled the planet. Now join TFK as we travel back in time. Let’s explore the world of dinosaurs!   
This is a Tyrannosaurus rex. It was one of the largest dinosaurs. It was a meat eater. It had sharp claws and teeth. It preyed on other animals. 
Diplodocus
The Diplodocus was long. It was about the length of two school buses. It ate plants. Its long neck helped it reach leaves.
Heterodontosaurus
Other plant-eating dinos stood tall on two feet. This dino’s fingers helped it grasp food. It ate from treetops. It may have eaten small animals too. 
Triceratops
The Triceratops traveled in herds. The dinosaur looked for plants to eat. Triceratops had three horns. (Tri means “three.”) Horns helped it defend itself from predators.
These are paleontologists. They are scientists. They help us learn about life long ago. They study the fossils of dinosaurs and plants. 
Did You Know?
The word dinosaur means “terrible lizard.” It comes from the Greek language.  
|||||Computer algorithms are instructions that tell machines to solve problems and make predictions. They help us use our smartphones and stream videos, and someday they’ll drive our cars. But can they make us more creative?
Some artists think so. Algorithms are helping them to come up with new ideas and produce surprising artworks. These works remind us that science can be creative and that art is a form of invention. Meet three artists who have advanced the possibilities of algorithm art.
Painting With Robots 
TEAMWORK Sougwen Chung works with a team of robots to paint spirals and swirls on a canvas.
For Sougwen Chung, the computer is a tool for expanding her creativity. Chung, who is based in New York City, works with a set of robots called DOUG, short for Drawing Operations Unit: Generation. DOUG can be a robotic arm fitted with a pencil or paintbrush, or it can be a team of robots.
Chung programmed DOUG to paint. She gathered 20 years of her drawings and made digital copies, then saved these copies in the robot’s memory bank. As Chung paints on a canvas, the robot responds to her brushstrokes. From “memory,” it makes a stroke that Chung might make. In this way, artist and machine work together, and the result is always a surprise.
Chung and DOUG often perform before an audience. It must be “a bit weird” to watch an artist work without a definite plan, Chung says. But that’s the fun of it. “The second I know what’s happening in those performances, I’ll probably stop doing them. For now, I like the energy it gives to the work.” 
Cutting-Edge Architecture
STRANGE FORMS A spectator examines a column created with algorithm technology.
Michael Hansmeyer wants to create forms we’ve never seen. “We are drawn to things that make us curious,” says the architect, who’s based in Germany and Switzerland.
Take the column pictured above. It started with a simple shape: a cylinder. Hansmeyer programmed a computer to fold a digital cylinder again and again, producing countless new details. “It’s like doing origami with a piece of dough,” he says. Surfaces could stretch and tear. Some were almost too tiny to see. The result would have been impossible to draw, or to imagine beforehand.
A laser cutter was used to shape the actual column. About 3,000 slices of cardboard were made and stacked on top of one another. Since then, technology has improved, and Hansmeyer has made columns out of sandstone using a 3D printer.
These wondrously detailed forms pull people in for a closer look. When first displayed, the works came with signs that read “Do Not Touch.” “But everybody reached out and touched them,” Hansmeyer says. “In a way, that was the greatest compliment.”
Color By Numbers
IN THE BOX This work charts CO2 emission data from 2010 for every country in the world.
Ben Shneiderman doesn’t call himself an artist. “But I aspire to be an artist,” he says. Shneiderman is a computer scientist at the University of Maryland. He’s an innovator in the field of data visualization, a way of making large amounts of information visible at a glance.
In the 1990s, Shneiderman was looking for a way to see all the data contained on a computer hard drive. It dawned on him to make a digital map. So he designed an algorithm that could organize information using shapes of different sizes and colors. It turned out that the maps were not only useful, they were beautiful. They looked like art.
Shneiderman has mapped everything from sports statistics to population growth. Several of his works now belong to the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. And that makes sense to him. “There’s a lot of unity between art and science,” he says. “You don’t have to choose one or the other. You can have both in your life.” 
|||||
Animals work together in groups. They help each other get things done.

Humpback whales travel together. They move in pods. They swim a long way to find food.
Weaver ants work together. They build nests in trees out of leaves. They live in colonies. 
Unlike the males, female lions hunt together. They search for food as a group. They bring meat back for the others. 
Macaws stay safe together. They fly as a group to a feeding spot. The birds take turns watching out for enemies.
|||||We measure things every day. Measurement helps us learn about our world. It helps us complete tasks. And it helps us get things right. There are many different tools for measuring. Take a look.
A stopwatch measures time.
Ready? Go! How long will it take for these people to run around the track? Using a stopwatch will give us this information. 
A ruler measures length.
A tape measure is a ruler that rolls up. This construction worker is measuring a wall. To do her job, she needs to know the wall’s length. 
A thermometer measures temperature. 
How hot? How cold? A thermometer measures temperature in degrees.  
A scale measures weight.
How many pounds of bananas is this? The scale will tell us.
Try It!
Grab some markers. Use them to measure something. How long is each marker? How many did you use? How long is the thing you measured? 
|||||The One and Only Ivan is about a gorilla named Ivan. He performs in an animal show at a shopping mall. Then Ivan remembers his old life in the jungle. And he tries to get free. ARIANA GREENBLATT plays Julia, Ivan’s friend. “Treat animals how you would want to be treated,” she told TIME for Kids.
|||||
On February 24, TIME for Kids and Nickelodeon announced the first-ever Kid of the Year television show. The hour-long special will air on Nickelodeon and CBS in December. It will feature five young leaders who are making a positive difference in their community. One of them will be named the TIME Kid of the Year. 
Trevor Noah will host the show. He’s a comedian. Noah says the show “celebrates everything that makes young people amazing.”
Do you know someone who should be the TIME Kid of the Year? We’ll be asking for nominations soon. Keep an eye out for details!
|||||Tyler Gordon is an artist. He’s 14 years old. He lives in San Jose, California. Tyler was born deaf. At age 5, he had surgery to gain some hearing. But he has been bullied at school because of a stutter. He uses art to move past these hardships.

Tyler paints portraits of people who inspire him. That includes President Joe Biden. Tyler looks up to Biden. Biden also struggled with a stutter. Tyler painted Vice President Kamala Harris, too. He admires Harris’s ability to break barriers. 
Tyler is proud of his work. “My art gives me power to be myself,” he says. He shares that power with many of his followers online.
|||||Sports can be a lot of fun. They are also a great way to get exercise and stay healthy. But it’s important to stay safe. Here are four ways to take care of yourself while playing. 
 Before playing, it’s good to warm up. Go for a light jog. Learn the proper ways to stretch. This will lessen your chances of getting injured.
Rules aren’t only meant to keep the game fair. They are also meant to protect you. Listen to your coach. He or she will keep you and your playmates in the game.
Protective gear includes helmets, pads, and mouth guards. Different sports require different gear. Make sure your gear fits properly. 
The body needs water. When you sweat, your body loses water. That’s why it’s a good idea to keep a water bottle nearby during play. Take a break and drink up!
|||||Have you traveled on a road? Have you sipped water from a fountain? You can thank a civil engineer. Engineers design and create things. Civil engineers create on systems that help our towns and cities run. They work on things we can see, like roads. They also work on things we don’t see, like underground pipes. TIME for Kids spoke with three civil engineers. Read on to find out how they help our communities. 
Roads don’t appear by magic. Neither do sidewalks or bike lanes. These things are carefully designed. Engineers are the people behind planning them. 
YUNG KOPROWSKI is a transportation engineer. She works in the Phoenix, Arizona, area. She creates new ways for people to get around. She fixes old transportation systems, too. “We make it safer and easier for people to travel to the places where they live, work, and play,” Koprowski says. 
Transportation engineers have a lot to think about. They think about road signs, markings, and more. Problem-solving is a big part of the job. Math and science skills are important, too. Koprowski has advice for future engineers. “Don’t stop trying,” she says.
Meet JAY BRANNON. She is an environmental engineer. She oversees the building of public water systems. This means she works on pipes that move water underground. Brannon works with designers, geologists, architects, and others. 
Brannon is based in Portland, Oregon. She led an important project there. She helped rebuild a water pipe under a hiking trail. The pipe carries stormwater underground. This keeps the water from washing away the trail.
Brannon is a woman of color. In engineering, this comes with many challenges. “There are not many of us, so it can be frustrating,” she says. But Brannon hopes to inspire more people of color to go into engineering. She is working on a textbook about the topic. “Representation is really important,” she says.
As a kid, RUWANKA PURASINGHE knew about engineering. “But I wasn’t sure I wanted to do that with the rest of my life,” he says. Then he traveled to Rome, Italy. He saw an ancient aqueduct system there. An aqueduct is a structure that carries water. The one he saw is still being  used today. The experience had an impact on Purasinghe. “It really opened my eyes,” he says.
Now Purasinghe is a geotechnical engineer. He works in Los Angeles, California. He solves problems with the water supply. He uses pipes and water tanks to do so. This work is extra important when the city has a drought. 
“Engineers have been solving problems for thousands of years,” Purasinghe says. “I enjoy thinking of ways to help future generations.”
|||||Joe Gardner, voiced by Jamie Foxx in the new movie Soul, is a jazz lover and gifted piano player who teaches middle school band. He’s seeking success and the approval of his mother (Phylicia Rashad). When he gets a gig playing with his idol, saxophonist Dorothea Williams (Angela Bassett), Joe thinks he’s about to fulfill his purpose in life. 
Then Joe falls down a manhole. Eventually, he finds himself in the Great Before, where new souls are prepared for life. It’s also where Joe meets Soul Number 22 (Tina Fey). He’s assigned to help her find her spark—the passion that motivates her. But 22 isn’t excited about anything until she begins to experience life for herself.
SOUL-SEARCHING In the Great Before, Joe (right) eats pizza with 22.
Seeing life through 22’s eyes awakens something in Joe. He realizes that while music is one of his sparks, he also finds satisfaction in helping others. By guiding 22, Joe gains an appreciation for the little things that make life worth living. For example, 22 gets her spark from ordinary activities, like watching the sky. 
The characters in Soul are very relatable. Everyone has a spark. The movie suggests that part of the beauty of life is discovering that spark and helping others find theirs.  
Joe’s piano pieces, played by musician Jon Batiste, are a highlight of the film. The music is impressive and full of feeling. 
It’s easy to believe these works take Joe on a musical journey to another world. By hearing them, we are transported too.
I give Soul a rating of 9 out of 10. The movie is thought-provoking and inspiring. As the characters learn from one another, the viewer is invited to examine his or her own life. 
You’ll want to watch this film again and again with those who know you best, so you can discuss your spark and why it makes you you.
|||||This time of year, you might see lions roaming the streets. They prance, wriggle, and rear up on two legs as drums beat and cymbals clash.
Have no fear: These aren’t real lions. They’re dancers in colorful costumes, celebrating a centuries-old tradition that originated in China. It’s meant to bring good luck in the coming year. In many Asian countries, the new year is celebrated with the new moon that occurs in late January or early February. This year, the holiday begins on February 12. 
Typically, a lion is made up of two dancers. One dancer controls the head, the other controls the tail. There are many different kinds of lion dances. The most spectacular might be jong, or pole, jumping (pictured above), in which lions perform tricks on high poles. The dance combines martial arts skills and acrobatics. 

“I think of it as a sport,” says Anthony Huang, 15, a dancer at New York City’s Chinese Freemasons Athletic Club. Anthony has performed as the lion’s tail, but this is his first year controlling the head, which can weigh 20 pounds. The challenge is coordinating with the music and the other members in the group.
It’s important to Anthony to pass on this historical dance form. 
“I feel like this tradition really represents me,” he says.
Changing Times
Lion dances were once performed mostly by males. These days, the activity has become more inclusive. 
LionDanceMe is a group in San Francisco, California. On its dance teams, boys and girls work together. Sixteen-year-old Ananda Tang-Lee is a member. Growing up, Ananda would see boys performing the lion dance. But anyone can take it up, she says. “You have to believe in yourself, and have confidence that you can do it.” 

During the pandemic, LionDanceMe has recorded some of its performances to show them online. This has gotten the dance troupe even more excited to perform in person again, when it’s safe. 
“It’s a different performance in real life,” says Isabella Yu, 16, who plays drums, cymbals, and gong. “We bring a lot more than just the performance. We bring energy and excitement, too.” 
Lion dancing will likely continue to evolve. But one thing that will never change is the sense of community among team members. “We call it a family,” Ananda says. “It’s really great, because we always have each other’s backs.”
|||||Who’ll become the Kid of the Year? The answer will be revealed December 4 on an hour-long TV special on Nickelodeon. Read about Bellen Woodard, one of the top 20 finalists, below.
Bellen, from Leesburg, Virginia, calls herself the world’s first “crayon activist.” In class one day, she noticed there were no crayons to match a variety of skin tones. “One of my friends asked for a skin-colored crayon,” Bellen says. “My other friend gave him the peach-colored crayon.” So Bellen, 9, began to “change the language” about skin-colored crayons at her school. She also used her own money to make packets of crayons in diverse skin tones and gave them to other kids. That was in 2019. Now she has her own brand of multicultural crayons called Bellen’s More than Peach. Bellen says her mission is to make sure no kid feels excluded.
This story was updated on November 20, 2020, to reflect a change to air date and network.
|||||Scientists have found many artifacts from the Titanic deep in the ocean. Let’s take a look.
Mug
The White Star Line was the company that ran the Titanic.
Vest
People left everything behind when they got into the lifeboats.
Playing Cards
Passengers aboard the Titanic played games to pass the time.
Propeller
This is a propeller from the Titanic. It helped move the ship.
Binoculars
 
These binoculars from the Titanic were very well-preserved.

Violin
The bandleader kept playing as the Titanic sank.
 
|||||Each weekday, some 30 million students in the United States eat a school lunch. Then they fill cafeteria trash cans with uneaten food. 

A student puts food on a share table. What is not taken by other students will be reused or donated.
Wasted food is a waste of money, a missed chance to feed hungry people, and bad for the environment. That’s why schools are trying to reduce the amount of food that winds up in the trash. “We don’t want good food to go to waste,” Nancy Deming told TIME for Kids. She works for the Oakland Unified School District, in California.  



Schools have several ways to cut down on food waste. Students are often hungrier after active play, so having lunch after recess can reduce waste. Making the lunch period longer also helps. It gives kids more time to eat. 
A Massachusetts student enjoys his meal from the Chefs in Schools program.


In Oakland, schools set up share tables. Students put untouched food on the share tables, and other students can take the food if they want it. Uneaten food is served another day or donated to charity. Food scraps are turned into compost. 



Sometimes, students waste food because they don’t like how it tastes. Chef Sam Icklan wants to change that. Icklan works for a program called Chefs in Schools. He helps cafeteria staff create recipes kids enjoy. 
A cook prepares spicy chicken flatbread. The recipe was made to cut down on waste.


In one school, kale often went untouched. Icklan used the kale as a pizza topping and called the dish Green Monster Pizza. Kids loved it. “It became this beautiful, vibrant dish,” he says. “Who wouldn’t eat that?” 

 Buy “ugly” fruits and veggies. They’re just as tasty as perfect-looking produce. 
Read safety labels. “Best before” means it’s safe a little while after that date. “Use by” means it’s no longer safe after that date. 

Start with small portions. If you’re still hungry, you can take more later. After meals, use scraps for compost. 
|||||Archaeologists in Egypt have uncovered 27 wooden coffins. The coffins were buried about 2,500 years ago. They were found in an ancient burial site. Some were discovered in early September. Others were found later in the month. Archaeologists are continuing to work at the site. They are trying to learn more. Khaled El-Enany is Egypt’s minister of tourism and antiquities. He says the discovery is “very exciting.”
|||||The new coronavirus is a public health emergency. The disease is spreading around the globe. 
Coronaviruses are a group of viruses. They can infect animals and people. Some cause mild illness, like the common cold. Other cases can be more serious. The type causing the current pandemic is new to scientists.
The new coronavirus was first found in China. That was back in December. On February 11, the disease that it causes was officially given a name. It is called COVID-19. It moved quickly around the world. Now, scientists and doctors are working together to stop its spread. They are working together to find a cure, too. 
TIME for Kids spoke with Dr. Juan Dumois. He is an infectious-disease specialist. He works at Johns Hopkins All Children’s Hospital. It is in Florida. He answered our questions about COVID-19. Here’s what he had to say.
Question: The coronavirus causes an illness called COVID-19. What are its symptoms?
Answer: Symptoms include fever, coughing, and shortness of breath.
Q: What should I do if I have these symptoms?
A: If you’re sick, tell a trusted adult. Symptoms can be treated. It may take a few days to a week to feel better.
Q: How does the virus spread?
A: If you’re near someone who coughs or sneezes, you can inhale the virus. If they cough or sneeze on a surface, you can pick up the virus by touching it. Avoid getting the virus by washing your hands.
Q: How dangerous is the virus to kids?
A: Children seem to be much less affected than adults. If kids do get sick, they’re less likely to have severe symptoms.
Q: What can I do to stay healthy?
A: Before touching your face, wash your hands for 20 seconds—that’s “Happy Birthday” two times—with soap and running water, or use hand sanitizer. There are also things you can do to strengthen your immune system. That helps the body fight off infections. Your immune system can be made stronger if you eat a healthy diet. Getting enough sleep is also important.
Q: What should I do if I’m feeling anxious about COVID-19?
A: Don’t be shy about talking to a parent, a teacher, or to another trusted adult. Feeling out of control can also make you anxious. But you can have some control by following safety and health guidelines.
Q: What are some common myths about the virus?
A: One myth is that wearing a mask is all you need to protect yourself from COVID-19. Washing your hands properly and frequently is more helpful.
Q: What can schools do to protect students?
A: Schools should make hand sanitizer available. That’s really important. Hand sanitizer needs to be rubbed on both hands, and it should take at least 15 seconds to dry. Doorknobs and desks should also be wiped down at least once a day, or ideally after each class.
Responses have been edited for length and clarity.
|||||Sound pollution caused by humans is making oceans noisier than ever and harming marine life. That’s according to a new article published in the journal Science.
Researchers looked at thousands of studies on ocean sound and its effects on wildlife. They found that noise pollution in oceans has increased over the years. And it has had a negative impact on animal behavior. 
Sea animals depend on the ocean’s natural sounds to find their way around and communicate with one another. “Sounds travel very far underwater,” Francis Juanes says. He’s one of the article’s authors. “For fish, sound is probably a better way to sense their environment than light.” But noise from activities like shipping, drilling, and construction drown out natural sounds. As animals flee noisy areas, their habitats shrink.
There are ways to address this problem, the study’s authors write. Wind-powered ships, quieter propellers, and floating wind turbines would lower the volume. And governments could pass laws regulating ocean noise. “We have noise standards for cars and trucks,” says Carlos Duarte, the paper’s lead author. “Why should we not have them for ships?” 
Stop and Think! Who are the people quoted in the article? What makes them experts on the subject? How do their statements help you to understand the topic?
|||||
Behind every great puppet is a great puppeteer. That is someone who gives a puppet personality. LESLIE CARRARA-RUDOLPH is a puppeteer. Her puppet is Abby Cadabby, of Sesame Street. 
Carrara-Rudolph makes Abby move. She also gives Abby a voice. “When I put on Abby, she comes to life,” Carrara-Rudolph told TIME for Kids. “I disappear behind her.” 
Carrara-Rudolph uses her arms and hands to make Abby move. Sometimes, other people help. They move Abby’s wings and wand. 
While working the puppets, puppeteers sit below the stage. The camera cannot see them. “We have as much fun as the puppets do,” Carrara-Rudolph says. 
|||||The Pharaohs’ Golden Parade took place in Cairo, Egypt, on April 3. It celebrated the country’s history, transporting 22 royal mummies from the Egyptian Museum to the National Museum of Egyptian Civilization. The mummies of 18 kings and four queens were carried in custom-made vehicles. “It’s a once-in-a-lifetime event. These are our ancestors,” Sarah Zaher, a parade attendee, told the New York Times.
|||||The moon’s Ocean of Storms is a dry open space. In 1967, the United States landed its Surveyor 3 spacecraft there. Two years later, the Apollo 12 crew arrived. The astronauts collected lunar samples to bring back to Earth.
It’s been quiet in the Ocean of Storms since then—until lately. On December 1, China’s Chang’e 5 spacecraft landed there. The craft returned to Earth two weeks later, making China the first country to bring back rocks and soil from the moon since 1976.
Geologists are eager to look at the lunar materials. Brad Jolliff is the director of the McDonnell Center for the Space Sciences, at Washington University, in St. Louis, Missouri. In an email to the Associated Press, he said, “These samples will be a treasure trove!”
Chang’e 5 Mission
The Chang’e 5 mission is the fifth in a lunar winning streak for China. In 2007 and 2010, Chang’e 1 and 2 orbited the moon. In 2013, Chang’e 3 landed there and sent forth a rover. And in 2019, Chang’e 4 did the same, becoming the first spacecraft to successfully land on the moon’s far side.
Chang’e 5 was a harder mission. It involved a multistage spacecraft that didn’t just land on the moon but lifted off from it, too. Launched on November 23, 2020, the craft entered lunar orbit on November 28.
One stage separated from the main body of the craft. It touched down on the moon. It collected nearly 4½ pounds of rocks and soil. Then it transferred them to another vehicle. That vehicle lifted off and rendezvoused with the orbiting part of the spacecraft.
A reentry capsule brought the samples to Earth. It thumped down in China’s Inner Mongolia region on December 16, ending the successful mission.
Thomas Zurbuchen works for NASA. He tweeted his applause: “Congratulations to China on the successful landing of Chang’e 5.” Zurbuchen also expressed his hope that the lunar samples “could advance the international science community.” 
|||||Halloween is the perfect time to curl up with a book that will make you glad you’re safe at home. Here are three new spine-tingling tales. 
A Game Gone Wrong
In Hide and Seeker, by Daka Hermon, Justin is confused by his friend Zee’s behavior. A year ago, Zee went missing. Now he’s back. And he’s talking about a being called the Seeker. At Zee’s welcome-home party, hide-and-seek turns scary when players disappear into the realm of Nowhere. There, they meet the Seeker. “I want readers to be entertained by this spooky story, but more important, to feel empowered to face any challenge that comes their way,” Hermon told TIME for Kids.
Odd Occurrences
What would you do if you found a dog with red eyes? That’s what Eleanor has to figure out in Thirteens. Two of her pals see the dog too. The good news? The three friends have a special book to help them solve mysteries. The bad news? The book tells them that every 13th Halloween, three 13-year-olds in their town go missing. Kate Alice Marshall is the author of Thirteens. She told TFK that she hopes readers experience “the satisfaction of figuring out a puzzle just in time.”
Hotel Haunting
Meet JJ Jacobson in Midnight at the Barclay Hotel, by Fleur Bradley. JJ enjoys ghost hunting. So when his mother is invited to a haunted hotel, he persuades her to take him along. Soon, he and other guests find themselves at the center of a mystery. It’s up to them to discover who killed the hotel’s owner, Mr. Barclay. 
Bradley told TFK the book was inspired by a historic hotel near her home, in Colorado. “I listened to the ghost stories of people who lived there,” she says.
|||||Gray wolves have roamed North America for at least half a million years. Their habitat once included most of the continental United States. But during the 1800s and early 1900s, wolves were hunted to near extinction. By the 1960s, the U.S. wolf population was limited to a handful of creatures in small corners of the northern Midwest. 

Then, in 1973, the Endangered Species Act (ESA) became law. It protects animals at risk of becoming extinct. Gray wolves were one of the first animals placed on the endangered-species list. Killing them was illegal. And the U.S. government worked to promote their conservation. In a famous example of this effort, starting in 1995, 31 wolves were moved from Canada to Yellowstone National Park. By 2015, more than 500 gray wolves were living in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem. 
FREE TO ROAM A wolf is released at Yellowstone National Park in January 1996. The wolf was relocated from Canada as part of conservation efforts.

Today, the continental U.S. is home to more than 6,000 gray wolves. On January 4, 2021, the U.S. government removed gray wolves from the endangered-species list. Usually, an animal’s delisting would be cause for celebration. But some conservationists say the predators still need protection.
A Difference of Opinion

“Wolves are controversial,” Adrian Treves told TIME for Kids. He’s a wolf expert at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. “People can’t agree about their protected status or whether they’re actually safe and secure.” 

In some parts of the country, wolves are thriving. More than a thousand of them can be found just in Michigan and Wisconsin. But overall, their range is still a fraction of what it was. Wolves used to live across most of the U.S. Now they’re found in fewer than a dozen states. 
PLAYFUL PACK Wolves play in a snowy Montana forest. Thick fur keeps the animals warm.

Some experts say the goal of the ESA should be to protect an animal until it has reclaimed its original range. Others argue that as long as a species is not at risk of extinction, it doesn’t belong on the endangered-species list. And ranchers with land near wolf habitats say that if the predator’s population continues to grow, more of their livestock will be killed by wolves.

David Bernhardt was secretary of the interior when the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announced its plan to delist the gray wolf, in October 2020. “The gray wolf has exceeded all conservation goals for recovery,” he says. According to Bernhardt, the wolf “is neither a threatened nor [an] endangered species.” 
FIERCE PREDATOR A wolf threatens a pack of bison in Yellowstone National Park. Wolves hunt and kill bison for food.

But Jason Rylander, of the conservation group Defenders of Wildlife, worries that without protection, the wolf population will crash again: “We have to ask, ‘Is the work of recovery really done for this species?’ In our view, it’s not. There are still too many places where the population hasn’t come back.”
PUPS GROW UP These gray wolves are pups. Adults can weigh 100 pounds. The animals live in groups called packs.

What’s Next?
Environmental groups are suing the U.S. government over the decision to delist the wolf. Rylander hopes that no matter what, people and wolves can peacefully coexist. His group is promoting ways to make that happen, like using portable wire fences to keep wolves away from grazing livestock. For now, protection of nearly all wolves is up to the states. In November 2020, Colorado voters approved a measure that would focus on the wolves within its borders. 
Gray Wolf Facts
The gray wolf is a fierce predator. It has long teeth and powerful jaws, and can chase prey at more than 35 miles per hour. A typical male weighs about 100 pounds and is more than six feet long. (That includes its bushy tail, which is one or two feet long.)
Wolves live in packs of up to 30 adults and pups. They communicate with one another using facial expressions and the positions of their bodies and tails. Howling helps members of a pack stay in touch. 
|||||For our Earth Day special issue, we’re featuring three new books about our planet—and the plants and animals that live here.
Hello, Earth!
Hello, Earth! Poems to Our Planet explores the extraordinary place we call home. Each poem is dedicated to the Earth’s wonders, such as its volcanoes, deserts, and oceans. Joyce Sidman is the book’s author. She told TIME for Kids she was inspired to use poetry to show young readers the beauty and importance of the environment. “It’s a wonderful way of writing about the world that shows us the mysterious . . . things that go on in nature,” she says. —By Karena Phan
How to Change Everything
How to Change Everything, by Naomi Klein, is a tool kit for young activists who want to fight climate change. The book explains both the chemistry and the politics of climate change. Klein has been writing about environmental activism for more than 15 years. “During that time, the movement has gotten younger and younger,” she told TFK. Klein believes that kids have the power to make a difference. She wants readers to speak up. “Young people are already leading the climate movement. . . . [They’re] raising the alarm and leading the way toward solutions.” —By Ellen Nam
The Elephant Doctor of India
The Elephant Doctor of India tells the true story of Dr. Kushal Konwar Sarma, who grew up in a village in Assam, India. As a young boy, Sarma loved elephants. But the ones living in Assam didn’t have proper medical care. This motivated him to become a veterinarian when he got older. Since realizing his dream, he has traveled all over Assam to heal and save elephants. Janie Chodosh, who wrote the book, told TFK she hopes Sarma’s story will give kids “a sense of wonder” and “inspire them to care about the natural world.” —By Rebecca Mordechai
|||||President Trump and Joe Biden have sharply different ideas about how to lead the country. And voters had sharply divided opinions about the candidates. So Americans were eager to vote in the 2020 presidential election. They showed it by voting in record numbers. The percentage of eligible voters who cast a ballot was the highest since 1900. Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, many voted early, in person. Others voted early using mail-in and absentee ballots. They took these steps to avoid crowded polling places on Election Day.
Even before the polls opened on November 3, a record-breaking 103.2 million people had voted. This was 74.3% of the total voter turnout in the 2016 election.
Counting mail-in votes takes longer than counting votes cast in person. This is part of what delayed this year’s results.
|||||To help stop the spread of the new coronavirus, schools around the world have closed. Students have been learning from home. TIME for Kids editor Rebecca Katzman talked to five kids about what it has been like. 
Andrea, Age 6
Milan, Italy
I wake up, eat breakfast, and then study for a few hours. These days, we do all our homework on the computer. My computer skills have really been improving. I meet with my teachers and classmates on a video call three days a week. I still have to raise my hand if I want to talk. If the teacher calls on me, I turn on my microphone and speak. That way, nobody talks over anybody else. I sometimes get bored staying at home all day—but not always. I think it’s important for kids to be patient right now. We will be back to our regular lives very soon!  
Elisabeth, Age 7
Berlin, Germany
Learning from home is supercool. I do all the stuff I can’t do when I’m at school all day, like reading, playing games, and watching shows on the iPad. My teacher gave us two big folders with lessons in German, geography, and math. I try to do three to five worksheets a day, but sometimes I get distracted because I want to play video games. 
Lucy, Age 7
New York, U.S.A.
It is very different not being at school, but I stay connected with my class over video. We have been reading and writing a lot. I’m reading and writing about sea turtles right now. I tune in to P.E. class on Wednesday afternoons. The hardest thing about staying home is that I don’t get to see my friends or go to birthday parties. But I enjoy spending more time with my family! 
Mavis, Age 7
Hong Kong, China
I’ve been learning from home for two months. I have my own iPad now. I use it to tune in to class and to stay in touch with my teachers and classmates. My mom wants me to do more things independently. To practice my math skills, I play Uno with my younger brother. For music class, I made a song by tapping on cups of water. I have a ton of books in my bedroom, but I still miss the library. On Fridays, I read the news and take notes about how to stay safe from the virus. 
José Tomás, Age 6
Temuco, Chile
In the morning, I cuddle with my mom, watch cartoons, and do art projects. I do my assignments for school in the afternoon. Sometimes, I watch videos that my mom finds online. We do P.E. class in my backyard, where I get to run around, play, and spin in circles. At home, it can be hard to focus on my schoolwork. But I work very hard and I try not to think about everything that’s going on.
|||||Imagine you’ve been saving money to buy a new scooter. Finally, you’re ready to make the purchase. But your envelope of cash is missing. Then you make a shocking discovery. Your brother accidentally put the envelope through a paper shredder. Your cash is confetti.
Don’t panic. The U.S. government can help you get your money back, Eric Walsh says. He works for the U.S. Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP), in Washington, D.C. The BEP is the government office that prints paper money. Walsh works for the BEP’s Mutilated Currency Division. His team figures out the value of mutilated money. Then BEP repays the person who sent it in.
In 2018, BEP handled about 24,000 claims. Each claim is handled by a single examiner.
 
“It’s a painstaking job,” Walsh told TIME for Kids. “Some of these cases are just giant jigsaw puzzles.”
Water and fire are the most common causes of mutilated pieces  of currency. “The toughest cases are the burnt ones. The notes shrink and look like Monopoly money,” Tina Barnett says. She’s a BEP examiner. Her job is to work with damaged bills.
To do their job, BEP examiners use simple tools to separate damaged bills.

To make sure a bill is real, Barnett uses a microscope to read its fine print. She also uses special lights. Otherwise, the job is “pretty low-tech,” Walsh says. “Examiners go through each note and piece it together by hand.” They use simple tools, such as tweezers, glue, and tape.

The hard work is worth it. “For some of our customers, this is their life savings,” Walsh says. “So it’s very rewarding to be a bright spot in people’s lives.”
The U.S. Bureau of Engraving and Printing has a nickname: the Money Factory. Why? Each year, it prints billions of dollars’ worth of paper money. It was founded in 1862, in Washington, D.C. Public tours are available. But don’t expect to see nickels or dimes. Coins are made by the U.S. Mint.
|||||Danny Lee was going into the fifth grade. He wanted to join the school football team. His dad had other ideas. “I have friends who never want their kids playing tackle football,” Peter Lee told TIME for Kids. Peter is Danny’s dad. He wanted Danny to play flag football instead. The game does not involve tackling.
A player tries to grab an opponent’s flag. Each player wears a mouth guard for protection
Experts say kids under 14 are too young to play tackle football. The sport can cause serious head injuries (see “Hard Knocks”). A 2017 study found that playing tackle football before age 12 can lead to health problems later in life.
 Flag football is a safer sport. It’s growing faster than any other team sport in the United States. There are 1½ million kids ages 6 to 12 playing it. That’s more than those who are playing tackle football. 
Flag football requires skill and speed.
Here’s how flag football works. Every player wears a belt with flags on it. The quarterback throws the ball to a teammate who runs for the end zone. The opponents try to stop that player by grabbing one of his or her flags. It’s a fast-moving game. 
Sophie Day is 14. She plays for an all-girl team in Nevada. She says flag football is more exciting than tackle. But for Sophie’s mom, it’s all about safety. “In regular football, you have to be big, you have to be bad, and you have to win,” Michelle Day says. “Not with flag football. It’s known as the friendly sport.
A concussion is a brain injury. It can happen with a hard blow to the head or body. Concussions can be serious. A person with a concussion might look confused. He or she might stumble or pass out. Later, a person might become dizzy or get a headache. Or he or she might just not feel right. If you suffer a serious knock to the head or body, tell an adult right away.
|||||The Democratic Party will control both chambers of the United States Congress for the next two years. That is the result of two runoff elections for the U.S. Senate in Georgia. They took place on January 5.
Two Democrats were named winners on January 6: Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff. “We proved that with hope, hard work, and the people by our side, anything is possible,” Warnock said in a speech.  
Democrats already have a majority in the House of Representatives. Now the Senate will be split. It will have 50 Republicans and 50 Democrats. As vice president, Kamala Harris will be able to cast tiebreaking votes. She’s a Democrat. This will help Democratic president Joe Biden to move his policies forward. 
The elections were held because none of the candidates earned a majority of the votes in November’s general election. When this happens, Georgia law says the two candidates with the most votes must face off again.
|||||In Onward, brothers Ian and Barley use magic to bring back their dad. He died when they were young. But their first try at the spell brings back only half of him. The brothers must find another spell to make him whole. Along the way, they meet Corey. She’s a manticore. That’s a winged creature with the body of a lion and the tail of a scorpion. 
Octavia Spencer voices Corey. She spoke to TFK Kid Reporter Alexis Bumah about the brothers. “They are kids embarking on a quest,” Spencer says. “It’s about magic and fun.” 
Spencer describes Onward as uplifting and adventurous. The animated film is in theaters now. 
|||||Sili Recio grew up in the Dominican Republic. She has written a picture book. It is called If Dominican Were a Color. It is based on her childhood memories. The book describes the country’s culture. It describes the different colors of its people. Recio’s rhyming text paints a picture of the island. “I hope people feel as much joy and love reading the book as I felt writing it,” Recio told TFK. The book is available in English and in Spanish. 
|||||Picture this: You live in a village in Botswana, Africa. You leave home one morning and start walking to school. Suddenly, a gigantic elephant is standing in your path.    

“It’s really scary to come across an elephant when you’re on foot,” Kate Evans told TIME for Kids. Evans is the founder of Elephants for Africa (EFA). The group is based in Botswana. It works to protect elephants from poaching. Poaching means illegally capturing or killing an animal. 
A group of elephants takes a dip in the Boteti River, in Botswana.
Elephants have long found safety in Botswana. That’s because much of the land there is protected. It is illegal to hunt elephants on protected land. In recent years, more elephants have migrated to Botswana. Today, around 130,000 of them roam the land. 

But the elephants wander onto farms. They eat and trample crops. They’ve hurt and killed people, too. Some farmers respond by killing the elephants. “The biggest threat to elephants in Botswana is conflict with humans,” Evans says. “One-third of the elephant population is coming into contact with people.”
Walona Sehularo (center) works for Elephants for Africa. The group helps people inBotswana learn to live peacefully with elephants.
EFA’s goal is to help people and elephants live peacefully together. It keeps track of where the elephants go. The group takes schoolkids on trips to learn about the mammals, too. 
Walona Sehularo works for EFA. He teaches kids that elephants shouldn’t be feared. “Many in my country think ‘Why should I care about the animals?’” he told TFK. “But the only way things get better is if people care.”
Elephants are the largest land animals.
Elephants shape the environment. They trample grass. They knock down trees. They trudge through bushes. This traffic creates pathways for smaller animals. Plus, elephants spread seeds around as they roam. That helps new plants grow.
Elephants even help other animals find water. An elephant uses its tusks to dig in the ground for water. This gives other creatures a place to drink. 
|||||December 1, 1955, was a major moment in civil rights history. Rosa Parks refused to give her seat on a bus to a white passenger. It was in a part of the bus set aside for white people. This was illegal at the time in Montgomery, Alabama. Parks was arrested. But her action sparked a movement: the Montgomery Bus Boycott. 
December 1 is now known as Rosa Parks Day in some states, including Alabama. On Rosa Parks Day in 2019, there was a ceremony. It took place in Montgomery. It celebrated Parks with a statue. 
Alabama governor Kay Ivey was there to honor Parks. “No one has ever stood so tall as did Rosa Parks when she sat down,” Ivey said.
|||||Jiyoon Han’s family owns Bean & Bean Coffee Roasters, a chain of coffee shops in New York and New Jersey. Some of them were closed for months because of the coronavirus pandemic. When the shops reopened, employees had a problem: They kept running out of coins. “Getting change was just not possible for weeks,” Han told TIME for Kids. 
Bean & Bean isn’t the only business facing this issue. Supermarket chains have put up signs asking customers to pay electronically or provide exact change. Until recently, banks were unable to order their usual supply of coins from the government. What’s going on?
Money Problems
The U.S. has been experiencing a coin shortage. Health restrictions brought on by the pandemic meant that in spring 2020, fewer coins were being made at the U.S. Mint. In June, the government temporarily limited the distribution of coins to banks.
Karen Dynan is a professor of economics at Harvard University, in Cambridge, Massachusetts. She’s also a former economist for the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Dynan says there’s another, even bigger reason for the shortage: People aren’t going out and spending as much. “Coins have not disappeared,” she says. “They’re in people’s homes.”
In July, a U.S. Coin Task Force was created to address the shortage. Now the situation is beginning to improve. The government made a promising announcement on January 13: Banks will no longer be limited as to how many coins they can order. The coin shortage may soon be a thing of the past.
Do Coins Matter?
The pandemic has caused many people to make fewer purchases using cash. Electronic payment has become more common. “We were already moving toward a cashless economy,” Dynan says. “The virus has just accelerated all of that.”
Tae Kang is the owner of New Look Hand Car Wash, in Rochelle Park, New Jersey. He has seen this change in customer spending firsthand. “We’ve noticed more people paying electronically,” he says.
With electronic payments on the rise, do we still need coins? For now, the answer is yes. If you want to help end the shortage, Dynan suggests making “a special trip” to exchange your coins for bills at a bank or to spend them at a store.
|||||A house in New Orleans, Louisiana, is decked out for Mardi Gras. The city is known for its over-the-top Mardi Gras celebration. This year, the event took place on February 16. Typically, the festival fills the streets with crowds, parades, and extravagant floats. For 2021, events were canceled because of the coronavirus pandemic. New Orleanians have chosen to keep the party alive by decorating their homes to look like festive parade floats.
|||||John Lewis was a congressman for Georgia. He was one of the last living leaders of the civil rights movement. He died of cancer on July 17, 2020. He was 80 years old.
“John Lewis was an American treasure,” Martin Luther King III said when Lewis died. “He gave a voice to the voiceless.” King is the oldest son of Martin Luther King Jr.  
Lewis spent his life fighting for equality. In 1963, he walked beside Martin Luther King Jr. at the March on Washington. Lewis spoke at the event. “How long can we be patient?” he asked. “We want our freedom, and we want it now.”
John Lewis speaks at the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, on August 28, 1963.
In 1965, Lewis helped lead another march. It began in Selma, Alabama. About 600 protesters pushed for voting rights for Black people. Police met them at the Edmund Pettus Bridge. Protesters were ordered to turn back. They refused. Some were attacked. The nation was outraged by the violence. But the march drew support for the Voting Rights Act. Five months later, President Johnson signed it into law.   
|||||TIME for Kids reports on the results of the 2020 presidential election.
Former vice president Joe Biden has won the presidential election. He will become the 46th president of the United States. His running mate was Kamala Harris. She will become vice president. The two will be sworn in on Inauguration Day. That’s January 20, 2021.
The Associated Press announced Biden’s win on November 7. It was four days after Election Day. Biden was named the winner after taking Pennsylvania. That pushed his total number of electoral votes over 270. A presidential candidate needs at least 270 electoral votes to win. There are 538 in total.
Then Biden won Nevada. That took his number of electoral votes to 290. After winning Alaska on November 11, President Donald Trump had 217 electoral votes.
At press time, a winner hadn’t been announced in two states. One was Georgia. The other was North Carolina. These states don’t have enough electoral votes to change the outcome.
Biden has won the popular vote, too. As of November 12, he had about 77 million votes. Trump had about 72 million.
“America, I’m honored that you have chosen me to lead our great country,” Biden wrote on Twitter on November 7. “I will be a President for all Americans—whether you voted for me or not. I will keep the faith that you have placed in me.”
At press time, Trump had not conceded the election. He said he would challenge the results in court. Throughout the election, Trump voiced doubt about the country’s mail-in voting system. But there’s been no evidence of any widespread problem.
People voted in record numbers. The percentage of eligible voters who cast a ballot was the highest it has been since 1900. 
In some states, the candidates’ vote tallies weren’t far apart. Recounts are expected. Georgia has said it will recount its ballots. Trump’s campaign has said it will ask for another count in Wisconsin. States should complete recounts by December 8. That’s according to electoral college rules.
Stop and Think! What questions do you have after reading this article? What information would you expect a future article on this subject to include?
This story appears in the November 20, 2020, print edition of TIME for Kids. It was published online on the afternoon of November 12. It has not been updated.
|||||On August 19, smoke filled the sky over São Paulo, Brazil. It was coming from the Amazon rain forest. In August, there were a record number of forest fires in Brazil. Many were in the Amazon. 
Experts say many of the fires were started on purpose. Farmers use fires to clear land. Then they plant crops or raise cattle. 
This satellite image was taken on August 15. It shows part of the Amazon rain forest on fire in Brazil.
The Amazon is the world’s largest rain forest. It is home to millions of plant and animal species and 30 million people. The Amazon is important to the health of our planet. Its trees release oxygen. 
“The fires are a real tragedy for the air we all breathe,” Moira Birss told TIME for Kids. She is with Amazon Watch. It is a conservation group in California. 
In the Brazilian city of São Paulo, heavy smoke blocks the sun.
Brazil has sent soldiers to battle the blazes. But forest loss is still a big problem. In August, world leaders discussed a plan to help the Amazon. “We must find common solutions,” said German leader Angela Merkel.
|||||People gather in Wuhan East Lake Cherry Blossom Park, in Wuhan, China, on March 14. The park’s Cherry Blossom Festival includes live music and performances. It kicked off early this month. Stunning views of the pink petals can also be found at Wuhan University. The school invited medical workers from all over China to enjoy the blooms. 
At this time last year, medical workers were battling the coronavirus pandemic throughout the country. Now, they can appreciate cherry blossom season. In Wuhan, as elsewhere, it represents hope and renewal.
|||||Do you have a favorite game? Kids play different games all around the world. Take a look.
Hopping Around
Look at these girls playing hopscotch. They drew the board with chalk. These girls are hopping in Serbia. 
Jump to the Beat
Kids all over can jump rope. Some say a rhyme or sing a song while they do it. This boy is jumping in Kenya.
Count on It 

Mancala is a popular counting game. These kids are playing it in Malaysia. It was first played using stones. That was long ago, in Africa.
Batter Up
Cricket is a team sport. The game looks a bit like baseball. But a cricket bat is flat on one side. These boys are playing cricket in India. Each team is is trying to score the most runs. Who will win?  
Did You Know?
Soccer is the most popular sport on the planet. It’s played in more than 200 countries. In many places, it is called football. Do you play?
|||||On March 12, Americans began receiving payments from the United States government. This is part of President Joe Biden’s plan to help people. Many have struggled during the pandemic.
Biden signed the American Rescue Plan, worth nearly $2 trillion. That was on March 11. It’s designed to help repair the economy, which was damaged by the pandemic. It’s the second-largest stimulus bill in U.S. history. The largest was worth more than $2 trillion. President Donald Trump signed that bill. 

The new bill provides one-time payments of up to $1,400 to those who qualify. Billions of dollars will go toward reopening schools. The bill will also help increase vaccine distribution. 
Republican lawmakers say the bill is too big. But polls show that 70% of Americans support it. Those results are from Reuters and Pew Research Center. “This legislation is about giving the backbone of this nation . . . the people who keep this country going . . . a fighting chance,” Biden said in a statement.
Stop and Think! Which details about the stimulus bill stand out to you, and why? How do you think the bill will affect people in your community?
|||||This year, TIME for Kids celebrates its 25th birthday. A lot has happened in the last quarter century. Presidents have been elected. Milestones have been reached. Tragedies have struck. People have come together to solve problems. The whole time, TFK has brought news of these events to kids. Take a look back at the past 25 years. Read about some newsworthy moments and how TFK covered them.
TFK was founded in 1995 by Claudia Wallis and Lisa Garcia Quiroz. The first cover showed a 2-year-old living in Bosnia during a war. Wallis was TFK's first top editor. "We had this idea that kids knew about the world and had questions," she says. "We could fill in some gaps and deal with serious topics."
In 1996, a sheep named Dolly was born. Dolly's birth was a scientific breakthrough. She was the first clone of an adult mammal. That means she was an exact copy. In a TFK cover story, editor Martha Pickerill explained the complex science of cloning. "It was a really cool thing to be able to tell kids this had happened in their lifetime," she says. 
TFK launched its Kid Reporter program in 2000. We began tapping kids from around the country to report on local and national news. Dina El Nabli worked on the program. "We were able to get kids front-row seats, press passes, and access to all these historic events," she says. "It was a really great opportunity to experience history firsthand through the eyes of kids."
On September 11, 2001, terrorists attacked the United States. In New York City, two airplanes hit the World Trade Center. The attacks landed close to home for TFK, which is based in New York. TFK editor Nellie Gonzalez Cutler says the staff tried hard to create an issue about the September 11 attacks that would celebrate heroes. "I remember looking at my local paper," Gonzalez Cutler says. "There was a picture of the firefighters and police raising a flag in the rubble of the World Trade Center. I said, 'That's our cover.'"
In August 2005, Hurricane Katrina struck the southeastern U.S. The storm killed more than 1,800 people. New Orleans, Louisiana, was hit especially hard. In March 2006, TFK wrote about the first Mardi Gras celebration in that city following the hurricane.   
Check out TFK creative director Drew Willis behind the scenes.
TFK writes an annual feature about the best inventions of the year. In 2007, one of them was the first iPhone. "The iPhone is no ordinary gadget," TFK wrote. "It's a handheld, do-it-all computer. IPhone users can use it to talk, hear music, watch video, and look things up on the Internet. No wonder so many people want one!"
In 2008, Barack Obama made history when he was elected the first Black president of the United States. TFK's Nellie Gonzalez Cutler remembers watching the Obama family greeting the crowd on election night. "That was so exciting because our readers were of that age," she says of the Obamas' daughters, Sasha and Malia. They were 7 and 10.
TFK Kid Reporters have interviewed many celebrities over the years. Former TFK Kid Reporter Sarah Horbacewicz recalls being assigned a story about Justin Bieber in 2009. She hadn't heard of the young singer, who was just releasing his first single. "I remember asking my mom if I was interviewing Justin 'Beaver' or 'Bieber,'" she says. Bieber soon went on to superstardom.
In 2014, Malala Yousafzai became the youngest person to win a Nobel Peace Prize. Yousafzai is a champion of education rights for girls. That year, TFK readers voted for her as the TIME for Kids Person of the Year. Here is a photo of Yousafzai with former TFK Kid Reporter Mia Felt.
Astronauts Kjell Lindgren and Scott Kelly spoke with TFK readers from the ISS.
From 2015 to 2016, astronaut Scott Kelly spent a record-breaking year in space. TFK joined TIME in following his year aboard the International Space Station. One standout moment was when TFK hosted a live video session with Kelly and astronaut Kjell Lindgren aboard the ISS. New York City students got to ask the astronauts questions.
At a White House press briefing in May 2018, TFK Kid Reporter Benje Choucroun asked a question about gun violence in schools. "Can you tell me what the administration has done and will do to prevent these senseless tragedies?" White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders grew tearful as she answered Benje's question. Their exchange made headlines. "That was exactly the power of TFK at its best," said editor in chief Andrea Delbanco. "We let kids be the ones to decide what's important to them."
TFK staff comes together for a video portrait at the start of the 2020 school year. Because of the pandemic, the team has been working remotely since March.
In March 2020, the COVID-19 outbreak was declared a pandemic. For the first time, TFK was made by people working remotely. And the magazine began publishing only digitally. "It was the first time in 25 years of TFK that we did not print a paper copy of the magazine," Delbanco says. "It's something I'll never forget."
Looking Ahead
What do you think the world will look like 25 years from now? TFK's Andrea Delbanco has a prediction. "The way in which we'll deliver our content will be completely different," she says. "But there's not a time in this world in which bringing kids into the conversation won't be important."
|||||Meet Greta Thunberg. She is a 16-year-old climate activist. She lives in Sweden. Greta has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. That is a big honor. If she wins, Greta will be the youngest Nobel winner in history. The winner of the prize will be announced in October.

Greta has been staging sit-ins outside the Swedish parliament nearly a year. A sit-in is a type of protest. People sit in place and refuse to move until their demands are heard. “When I first started this strike, I didn’t really expect anything,” Greta told TIME. But her protests have inspired young people around the globe. They sparked a worldwide day of climate protests. Those took place on March 15. 
|||||Good news for American bald eagles! Since 2009, their population has quadrupled in the lower 48 states, according to a recent report by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Bald eagles were once on the brink of extinction. But efforts such as the banning of a harmful insecticide seem to have saved the bird. Deb Haaland, the secretary of the interior, called these results “a historic conservation success story.”
|||||More than a million children in the United States are allergic to peanuts. Many of them have to go to a hospital when they have an allergic reaction.
A new treatment for peanut allergies could be on the way. In September, health experts advised the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to approve a new drug. The drug has tiny amounts of peanut. A child takes it every day. After a while, the child builds up a tolerance to peanuts. Eating a small amount may no longer be dangerous.
Cathy Heald’s son is 12 years old. He is allergic to peanuts. Heald hopes the drug will be approved. “The peace of mind this treatment brings is invaluable,” she says.
|||||Former vice president Joe Biden has won the 2020 presidential election. He will become the 46th President of the United States.
On November 7, four days after Election Day, the Associated Press announced that Biden had enough electoral college votes to win the presidency. His running mate, Kamala Harris, will become the vice president. She will be the first woman vice president. She will also be the first Black person and the first South Asian person to hold the job. 
Officials in several states had been counting votes in the close race. Biden was named the projected winner when he won the state of Pennsylvania. This brought Biden’s total number of electoral votes to 284. President Donald Trump had 214. A candidate needs at least 270 out of 538 electoral votes to win. 
Biden appears to have won the popular vote, too. As of November 7 at 11:50 a.m., the popular vote count stands at 74,847,834 votes for Biden and 70,591,531 votes for Trump. 
“America, I’m honored that you have chosen me to lead our great country,” Biden said on Twitter on Saturday. “The work ahead of us will be hard, but I promise you this: I will be a President for all Americans—whether you voted for me or not. I will keep the faith that you have placed in me.”
Americans voted in record numbers. The percentage of eligible voters who cast a ballot was the highest since 1900. In some states, the candidates’ vote tallies were not far apart. Recounts are expected. Georgia’s secretary of state has already announced that the state will recount its ballots.
Trump has said he will challenge the results of the presidential election. “Beginning Monday, our campaign will start prosecuting our case in court,” he said in a statement after Biden’s win was announced. Throughout the election, Trump had expressed doubt about the country’s mail-in voting system, though there has been no evidence of any widespread issue. 
Look for further updates on the 2020 election at timeforkids.com and in the next issue of TIME for Kids.
|||||TIME’s Kid of the Year honor recognizes young people who are making a positive impact in their community. Along with winner Gitanjali Rao, four honorees were selected with the help of a committee of influential kids. The committee included Dylan Gilmer (Tyler Perry’s Young Dillon), Chinguun Sergelen (All That), Little Chef Ivy (Master Chef Junior), Sky Katz (Raven’s Home), and TFK Kid Reporters Raunak Singh and Tiana Sirman. Read on to learn about the four incredible honorees.
Tyler Gordon
High school freshman Tyler Gordon (pictured above) was born deaf. When he was 5, surgery gave him some hearing, though he speaks with a stutter. In elementary school, he was bullied so much that he barely spoke at all. But at 10, Tyler found a voice in art.
He started painting portraits of people who inspired him. In 2018, his portrait of NBA star Kevin Durant went viral. The player’s mother offered to buy it. Other stars Tyler has painted and met include Kevin Hart and Jennifer Lopez. 
Tyler is now 14. This year, he won a Global Child Prodigy Award. From his home, in San Jose, California, he hosts a painting class on Instagram. He has more than 18,000 followers. Tyler says that he still gets bullied but that painting is a way to move past it. “It helps me take my mind somewhere else,” he says. He hopes he can show other kids how to use art to overcome challenges, as well. —By Olivia B. Waxman
Jordan Reeves
Having a limb difference has let Jordan Reeves envision a more accessible world. Jordan, 14, is from Columbia, Missouri. She was born with a left arm that stopped growing below the elbow. That physical difference ignited her passion for design. Jordan believes design can empower kids with disabilities. That’s why she and her mother cofounded Born Just Right. It provides design and STEM resources for kids with physical differences. This way, they can come up with their own solutions.
“Kids with disabilities have a different point of view on the world, because the world isn’t made for us,” Jordan says. “We have this great design mindset because we grow up problem-solving.” Over the summer, Jordan was one of 30 people honored for the anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Next, she and Microsoft will design a guitar that people with physical challenges can play. —By Cady Lang
Bellen Woodard

Bellen, 10, is on a mission for inclusion. She has created a line of crayons in tones that reflect the wide spectrum of skin colors she sees in the world. A fifth grader from Leesburg, Virginia, Bellen is known as the world’s first crayon activist. With the support of her parents, she launched More than Peach in spring 2019. The nonprofit donates Palette Packets of multicultural crayons and sketchbooks to kids.
The idea came when one of Bellen’s classmates asked her for a “skin color” crayon. Bellen was the only Black girl in her grade. She knew the classmate meant the peach-colored crayon. “The peach crayon is a skin color,” she says. “But is it the only one? No, it isn’t. So I decided to make different shades of peaches and browns, and hopefully that could match everyone, including me and my friends and my classmates. Just everyone.”—By Jasmine Aguilera
Ian McKenna

Ian was in third grade when he learned that some kids at his school, in Austin, Texas, weren’t getting enough to eat at home. He wanted to help. For years, he had gardened with his mom. “I thought, ‘I’m good at gardening,’” says Ian, now 16. “Maybe I could try to start a garden that’s meant solely to help feed these people who are in need.” Ian persuaded his school to set aside space for a garden. He asked the community for donations of seeds and equipment. Other students donated their time.
Seven years later, Ian’s Giving Garden project has expanded to five schools. It has provided more than 20,000 pounds of organic produce to Austin families and food pantries. When COVID-19 hit, Ian began cooking meals for the hungry. He started offering online tutorials, a gardening hotline, and virtual cooking classes. “Hunger doesn’t stop,” he says. “I won’t stop until it does.” —By Aryn Baker
|||||The U.S. Census happens every 10 years. It’s an official count of people living in the country. The first one was in 1790. Now it’s time for the 2020 U.S. Census. For much of the country, it starts in March. 

But Alaska is special. The 2020 census started there on January 21. That’s when workers began counting residents of Toksook Bay. The census has started in Alaska ever since it became a state in 1959. Workers go door to door. It’s easier for them to get around in January, when the ground is frozen. “Our goal is to count everyone once, only once, and to count them in the right place,” says Steven Dillingham. He leads the U.S. Census Bureau.
|||||Are we alone in the universe? Scientists have spent years searching deep into space for signs of life beyond our planet. Now they’ve found what might be life right next door. 
On September 14, scientists reported a big discovery. A gas was found in the clouds of Venus. It’s called phosphine. On Earth, the gas is made by living things. It comes from places such as swamps and animals’ intestines.
Scientists can’t yet prove that life on Venus is what’s producing the phosphine. But they can’t explain the gas in any other way, either.
Sara Seager is a planetary scientist. She helped discover the phosphine on Venus. “It is a big deal,” she told TIME for Kids. “Phosphine is such a mysterious gas, and it shouldn’t be on Venus.” 
The Meaning of Life
Venus is the hottest planet in our solar system. It’s also one of the brightest objects in the night sky. The planet is surrounded by thick clouds. Until recently, no one thought there could be life on Venus. People thought the clouds were too toxic for a living thing to survive there. 
Clara Sousa-Silva is an astrochemist. She was also on the team that spotted phosphine in Venus’s clouds. She has spent her career looking for signs of life in space. “I hadn’t considered our solar system was a good place to look for life,” Sousa-Silva says. “And definitely not Venus because Venus is so awful.” 
Missions to Venus could find out more about the gas. If there’s life on the planet, scientists would expect it to be something like bacteria. 
Discovering life beyond Earth would teach us more about our place in the universe. To Sousa-Silva, it would say something about our importance. “I like finding out that we as humans aren’t that special,” she says. “There’s a big universe out there filled with all sorts of other life with different needs and desires.” 
|||||An orchestra is a big group of people who play music together. It is led by a conductor. He or she helps the musicians create music. Read on to learn more about the instruments in the orchestra. Find out how they are organized into four sections.
BRASS INSTRUMENTS are made of metal. A musician plays a brass instrument by blowing into it. The brass section is very loud. That is why it is at the back of the orchestra.
STRINGED INSTRUMENTS make music when their strings are plucked or played with a bow. String players sit up front.
WOODWIND INSTRUMENTS can be made of wood or metal. A musician plays a woodwind instrument by blowing into it. The woodwind section sits at the center of the orchestra. 
PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS make sounds when they are tapped, struck, or shaken. One percussion player may play a few instruments. They are usually not played at the same time. 

|||||Fierce Fighter 
JESSELYN SILVA (above, left) is 12 years old. She is a boxer. She competes against other kids in a boxing ring. Jesselyn is very hardworking. She practices five days a week. She dreams of winning a gold medal at the Olympics. Jesselyn has this advice for kids: “Don’t be scared to try something new.”
Riding High
QUINCY SYMONDS (above, right) is 10 years old. When she was 4, she asked her dad to take her surfing. Now Quincy is one of the best young surfers in Australia. She wins many surfing contests. Quincy dreams of riding waves all over the world. “Even if you are small, you can still do big things,” she told TFK. 
|||||The United States Supreme Court is the nation’s highest court. It heads the government’s judicial branch (see “Government Branches”).
The Supreme Court is made up of nine justices. John Roberts (center) is the court’s chief justice.
The court’s job is to solve disagreements. It hears around 80 cases a year. These cases affect citizens’ rights. They also raise important questions about the law.
 The court is made up of nine judges, called justices. Each is picked by the president and approved by the Senate. Justices may serve for life.
Justices hear cases in this courtroom. Lawyers on each side of an argument get 30 minutes to make their case.
The Supreme Court was created in 1789. That was two years after our country’s founders wrote the U.S. Constitution. The Constitution lays out rules for how the government should work. The Supreme Court’s role is to make sure the president and Congress follow the Constitution. The court can tell the president if his or her actions are allowed. It can also tell Congress that a law is unconstitutional.


Supreme Court rulings affect all Americans. One important case was Brown v. Board of Education, in 1954. Oliver Brown had sued the school system in Topeka, Kansas.
The U.S. Constitution is the basis for Supreme Court decisions.
His daughter, Linda, was not allowed to attend the school closest to her home. It was an all-white school. Linda was black. Her father thought this treatment was unfair.
The Supreme Court heard Brown’s case. The court ruled that the Constitution gives equal rights to all children in the U.S. The court said having separate schools for black and white children was unconstitutional. The case helped to end segregation in U.S. public schools. The results still touch our lives today.
The U.S. Constitution divides the nation’s government into three branches, or parts. Each branch plays an important role in shaping our country. Learn about what each branch does. See how they work together!
The SUPREME COURT heads the judicial branch. It can decide 
that a law made by Congress is unconstitutional. The court can also stop an order by the president.
The PRESIDENT leads the executive branch. He or she signs bills into law. The president has veto power, too. This means he or she can stop bills from becoming laws.
CONGRESS is the legislative branch. It is made up of the House of Representatives and the Senate. Members of Congress can vote on making bills into laws.
|||||Not all libraries are in big buildings. Some libraries are very small. In fact, a LITTLE FREE LIBRARY can be the size of a birdhouse. Some are even built inside the trunks of old trees. 
A Little Free Library is a book exchange. Anyone can start one. Most of them are wooden boxes filled with books. Neighbors can take a book. Then they are allowed to leave one for someone else. “It’s a great way to share a love of reading and share a feeling of community,” Margret Aldrich of Little Free Library told TIME for Kids.
|||||The truck drove along California’s highways. Analysts in Washington, D.C., were watching closely. They knew the status of its cargo: a COVID-19 vaccine. The vaccine was held in trays. It was packed with dry ice, sensors, and tracking devices. 
Distribution of U.S. COVID-19 vaccines began in December. Here, workers in Mississippi prepare a vaccine for shipment.
Pfizer was the first company to ship COVID-19 vaccines in the United States. That was in December 2020. Its doses must be kept frozen at below-normal temperatures.
The analysts saw a problem. Two trays were too cold. The driver was told not to deliver them. “They never left the truck,” Gustave Perna said. He runs logistics for the U.S. vaccine program. 
United Parcel Service employees in Kentucky get a vaccine shipment. Boxes are loaded onto trucks and sent for delivery.
Shipping the COVID-19 vaccine is hard. Keeping it frozen is even harder. So technology is used to keep track of it.
Helpful Technology
A freezer at a hospital in Kentucky holds vials of vaccine at a very cold temperature.
Every box of Pfizer’s vaccine has a GPS device. It also has a temperature monitor. And it has a bar code. If the doses go to the wrong place or get too hot or cold, officials know.
Another vaccine, by the company Moderna, has been authorized. More are on the way. To stay on top of it all, the government made software. It’s called Tiberius. It helps agencies follow vaccines. “They can dive in and really go into great detail,” says Deacon Maddox. He works for the U.S. vaccine program.
The first people to get the vaccine have been healthcare workers and the elderly. Even with technology at work, vaccines won’t be available to most adults in the U.S. until at least this spring.
Dr. Anthony Fauci receives his first dose of vaccine on December 22, 2020.

|||||Everyone knows teachers who go above and beyond to help their students learn and grow. This year, Teacher Appreciation Week starts May 3. To celebrate, we asked TFK Kid Reporters to tell us about a teacher who inspires them. Read what they had to say. Then think about a teacher you appreciate. How will you celebrate them this Teacher Appreciation Week?
TFK Kid Reporter Victoria Hanson: Math is the hardest subject for me. Even though I have to study extra hard for her class, my favorite teacher is Mrs. Manolescu, my math teacher. I truly appreciate her because she is really good at explaining how to solve problems. Also, I am an online learner this year, and she always gives the online students equal attention. When I fell behind, Mrs. Manolescu reached out to my other teachers and helped me figure out which assignments I needed to submit. I want her to know that I am appreciative of all that she has done for me this year.
TFK Kid Reporter Afton Campbell: My fifth-grade teachers Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Haven (who also taught me in fourth grade) always made me feel like I could do anything! Mrs. Smith made history come alive. She dressed as famous characters like Leif Erikson and Queen Anne. Mrs. Haven empowered my classmates and me by letting us experiment with science. I especially loved making circuits with my friends. It was such a fun experience! I am thankful for both of them for supporting me and building a foundation of learning that will last a lifetime. Happy Teacher Appreciation Week!
TFK Kid Reporter Rory Hu: Let’s face it: A chair as the barre, slippery socks instead of ballet shoes, and everyone crammed onto one computer screen is not an ideal environment for ballet class. Teaching ballet over Zoom is extremely challenging. But my teacher, Ms. Hammar, not only made virtual ballet class work, she made it enjoyable and engaging. She has a magical charm that brings the spirit of dance through the screen into our rooms. Ballet is finally exciting for me. Ms. Hammar observes everyone carefully during practices to find what we need to improve on and gives personal feedback. She offers tailor-made tips so each of us can grow in our own way. Her teaching improved my moves and made my dance a lot more graceful. What sets Ms. Hammar apart is her passion to help her students improve. She is always patient with questions and takes care to answer them thoroughly. When you ask about a move, she will first demonstrate, then have you do it, and she’ll continue to give instructions until you are perfect. She does not brush off any questions, no matter how trivial they are. Thanks to Ms. Hammar, I am one graceful jeté closer to being a true ballerina.
TFK Kid Reporter Pranav Mukhi: Mrs. Toner, I appreciate your coming to school every day to teach our class at Nassakeag Elementary. Coming to school and playing basketball and soccer with all my friends during recess makes me feel very happy during these difficult pandemic times. Thanks for making math and social studies so fun and interactive for me!
Mrs. Amoroso, thank you for all the patience you have had with students this year. I know that giving instructions to tune a cello remotely is no easy task. I really loved working with you while preparing for the New York State School Music Association festival!
Sethu Sir, thank you for the awesome tabla instructions, both in person and remote. I enjoy it so much, and I hope it gives you joy as well to see your students learn and enjoy playing the tabla.
TFK Kid Reporter Abby Rogers: Did you know that when you cut down a tree, it releases all of the carbon dioxide it has stored? This is just one of the many environmental facts Mrs. Nunez taught us this year. We have explored critical topics ranging from overfishing to deforestation to coral bleaching and so much more. By providing us with the opportunity to learn about these important issues, she has educated us and made us aware of the consequences of our actions. Thank you, Mrs. Nunez, for turning me and my classmates into globally minded citizens.
TFK Kid Reporter Sophia Hou: One of the teachers I admire is my fifth-grade newspaper club teacher, Mrs. Jones. She is very encouraging to all her students, no matter what. Mrs. Jones is always available to help us when we need it. She responds to emails almost instantly. She is very passionate about her work and what she teaches, and although I do not have her as a teacher anymore, she still keeps in touch with me. Mrs. Jones is the person who inspired me to become a TFK Kid Reporter, too!
TFK Kid Reporter Ian McKenna: Having a learning disability has made English, especially writing, a real struggle for me. I’ve dreaded English class for as long as I can remember. This year, however, I was lucky enough to have Mrs. Swan. She’s helped me tremendously. Not only has she helped me improve my essay-writing process, textual analysis, and overall essay quality, but she has helped me gain confidence I never knew I had. Outside of class, she has been working with me to improve my organizational and time-management skills. And she even offered to write college recommendation letters for me. She has had the biggest impact on me throughout my high school career. I’m so grateful to have had Mrs. Swan for English literature and composition this year!
TFK Kid Reporter Jeremy Liew: For the past three years, I’ve always thought of Ms. Craig, my elementary school math teacher, during Teacher Appreciation Week. Even though I'm now in middle school algebra, I still use her study skills: Read the textbook for tips, review old homework I missed, and ask the teacher for help. Regardless of my test scores, she always pushed me to be my best self, even if it meant wearing glasses for the first time. She emphasized understanding the material so that I could apply it elsewhere and teach my classmates. When I was in Ms. Craig's class, I always felt confident to speak up (even with glasses)—maybe because she also liked my funny jokes and magic tricks!
|||||The novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19 was discovered in 2019. But a coronavirus had been discovered in humans long before that. In 1964, June Almeida identified the first coronavirus known to cause human disease.
Suzanne Slade is the author of the new picture book June Almeida, Virus Detective! It describes Almeida’s life and work. “She has made significant contributions to our understanding of coronavirus,” Slade told TIME for Kids. “Her work is helping to fight it today.”
Daring to Discover
Almeida was born on October 5, 1930, in Glasgow, Scotland. From an early age, she loved science. She hoped to attend college, but she couldn’t afford it. Instead, at 16, Almeida went to work. She started as a lab technician at a hospital near her home. At that job, she used a microscope to analyze cells from sick people. At another job, Almeida learned a technique called negative staining. It makes viruses easier to see under a microscope.
Well-known scientists, such as British virologist David Tyrrell, became aware of Almeida’s skills. He and his team of researchers couldn’t identify the virus that had given one boy a terrible cold. They asked for Almeida’s help. 
Almeida used her negative-staining skills to set the mysterious virus against a dark background. That helped her see it clearly. Next, she used a powerful microscope to take crisp photos of the virus. She noticed that each virus particle was surrounded by tiny dots. This made it look like a crown. The word corona means “crown” in Latin. So the virus was named coronavirus.
Almeida’s methods have helped researchers battle the virus that causes COVID-19. In addition to her coronavirus discovery, Almeida did important research on several other viruses. “No matter what challenges she faced, she was always learning about science,” Slade says. “She just kept working hard.”
|||||Ruth Bader Ginsburg was a Supreme Court justice. She died on September 18, in Washington, D.C. She was 87. Ginsburg had been a justice since 1993. She was the second woman to sit on the nation’s top court. She fought for women’s rights. 
Memorials for Ginsburg were held all over the country. People made signs. They thanked her for her service. Many lit candles and left flowers. Jennifer Berger joined a memorial in Washington, D.C., on September 19. “I think it is important for us to recognize such a trailblazer,” she told the AP. “It is amazing to see how many people are feeling this loss tonight and saying goodbye.”
|||||Energy makes things work, grow, and move. It is passed from one person or thing to another. Energy can come from many different places. Ready to power up? Read on to learn more about energy. 
Move It to Use It
Anything that moves needs energy. When you run, walk, or jump, you are using energy.  
Food Is Fuel
Humans need energy. We get it from food. Food is fuel for playing.
Bright Energy 
The sun gives off energy. Sunlight is food for plants. It gives them energy to grow flowers, fruit, and vegetables.
Wind Power
We can get energy from the wind. These are wind turbines. They turn when they catch the wind. This creates electricity. The electricity is used to power things.
Did You Know?
Saving energy helps our planet. There are many ways to do it. Turn off the lights. Shut off electronic devices. Don’t run the water too long.
|||||Halloween is the perfect time to curl up with a book that will make you glad you’re safe at home. Here are three new spine-tingling tales.
A Game Gone Wrong
In Hide and Seeker, by Daka Hermon, Justin is confused by his friend Zee’s behavior. A year ago, Zee went missing. Now he’s back—but he can’t explain where he’s been. And he’s talking about a mysterious being called the Seeker. At Zee’s welcome-home party, a game of hide-and-seek turns frightening when players begin disappearing into the realm of Nowhere. There, they finally meet the Seeker. 
“I want readers to be entertained by this spooky story, but more important, to feel empowered to face any challenge that comes their way,” Hermon told TIME for Kids.
Odd Occurrences
What would you do if you found a dog with red eyes, or a grandfather clock with hands that go backward? That’s what Eleanor has to figure out in Thirteens. Her pals Pip and Otto see these strange things too. The good news? The three friends have a special book of fairy tales to help them solve these mysteries. The bad news? The book tells them that every 13th Halloween, three 13-year-olds in their town go missing.
Kate Alice Marshall is the author of Thirteens. She told TFK that she hopes readers experience “goosebumps, surprises, and the satisfaction of figuring out a puzzle just in time.”
A Hotel Haunting
Meet JJ Jacobson in Midnight at the Barclay Hotel, by Fleur Bradley. JJ enjoys ghost hunting. So when his mother is invited to a special event at a haunted hotel, he persuades her to take him along. There, he meets Penny, a fellow guest, and Emma, a lonely hotel resident. Before long, the kids find themselves at the center of a mystery. It’s up to them to discover who killed the hotel’s owner, Mr. Barclay. All the guests are suspects. 
Bradley told TFK the book was inspired by a historic hotel near her home, in Colorado. “I listened to the ghost stories of people who lived there,” she says.
|||||Go to the window and look outside. Are there clouds in the sky? How many? Are they puffy or wispy? Are they blocking sunlight or letting it through?
NASA scientists are interested in your answers. They’re using the power of “citizen science” to gather information about clouds from people all over the world. Amateur scientists contribute to professional research by making observations and processing data.
DIY Research
Citizen scientists don’t usually need special training or equipment. It may not even matter where they live. Often, projects are open to people of all ages. Many participants are kids. 
“This is a fundamental, real way for young people to engage in science that is useful and important,” Darlene Cavalier says. She founded a website called SciStarter. It helps people find projects they might like to participate in. 
For NASA’s GLOBE Observer program, volunteers use an app on a mobile device to submit cloud observations. While satellites photograph clouds from above, volunteers study them from below. “By combining the two, we get a more complete picture,” says Jessica Taylor, of NASA. Researchers use the data to learn about weather and climate change.
There are thousands of citizen science projects to choose from. You can measure light pollution, study the diet of ants, or locate bees. Sometimes, volunteers gather data from their own backyard. Other projects happen online. One provides underwater images of beluga whales. Volunteers then identify things like each whale’s age and gender. 
The COVID Effect
COVID-19 has halted or slowed some scientific research. Because of the pandemic, many scientists have not been able to travel to do their work. Citizen science has helped fill in the gaps, because people can submit data gathered where they live. 
With more people staying home because of the pandemic, scientists have seen a rise in the number of people volunteering for research projects. In April, SciStarter saw five times more engagement on its website than it had seen the year before. Cavalier hopes the increased interest continues.
“There are so many questions out there, and scientists do not yet have all the answers,” she says. “They need your help.”

|||||Sea turtles are ancient creatures. They have been around since the time of the dinosaurs. There are seven species of sea turtles. The reptiles spend most of their life underwater. Ready to learn more? Keep reading. 

A sea turtle’s eyes are like swimming goggles. They help the turtle see clearly underwater. 
Sea turtles have smooth shells. This makes it easy for them to swim. Do you see a pattern on this shell?
Sea turtles don’t have teeth. But their sharp jaws slice through food. Sea turtles like to eat jellyfish, crabs, seagrass, and algae. This turtle is about to eat a jellyfish. 
Female sea turtles lay eggs in the sand. The eggs hatch. Baby sea turtles are born. They head toward the ocean.
Plastic litter is harmful to sea turtles. Plastic bags can look like jellyfish. Turtles think they are food. (Don’t worry! A jellyfish is shown here.) 
|||||Sniff, sniff! This is a truffle dog. It hunts for truffles. Truffles are another type of fungus. They are found underground. Truffles have a strong smell. Chefs use them for cooking. 
Truffles are hard to find. That’s because they are rare. But truffle dogs are specially trained. They sniff out truffles in the forest. These furry hunters lead foragers to the smelly fungus. 
|||||A patent is a legal document. It stops people from copying an inventor’s idea. The U.S. began giving out patents in 1790. Here are some inventions that have received patents.
Cotton Gin
Eli Whitney got a patent for the cotton gin in 1794. It was a machine that quickly cleaned cotton. This made it easier to create cloth.
Electric Lightbulb 
Thomas Edison got a patent for an electric lightbulb in 1880. Edison got more than 1,000 patents for inventions.
Airplane
Wilbur and Orville Wright got a patent for a “flying machine” in 1906. They invented the first successful airplane.
iPhone
The first iPhone was released in 2007. In 2008, Apple Inc. got patents for its design.
|||||Look outside. What do you see? Are there birds in the trees? Are there bugs crawling around? What can you discover about these creatures by watching them? With The Outdoor Scientist, you’ll learn to make scientific observations about the natural world. The book comes with fun facts about plants, animals, and insects, as well as interactive projects you can do with friends and family.
Temple Grandin is the book’s author. She’s also an inventor and a scientist. The Outdoor Scientist was inspired by her childhood. “I grew up looking at bugs and leaves,” she told TFK. Grandin encourages readers to explore the world around them. “Kids today need to get outside and just observe nature,” she says. “Observation is an important part of science.”
|||||This spring, parts of the United States will witness a rare natural event. Trillions of Brood 10 cicadas are expected to emerge in mid-May. The insects have spent 17 years underground. They will likely be around until late June or July. 
The cicadas come out to mate. Across 15 states, they'll create a buzz as loud as a lawn mower. That's their mating call. It's the male cicada that makes all that noise, Michael Raupp told TIME for Kids. Raupp is an entomology professor at the University of Maryland, College Park. "It's going to be a big boy band up in the treetops," he says.
Within a few weeks, the female cicadas will lay hundreds of eggs. Then, as suddenly as they appeared, the cicadas will die. "This unique event happens nowhere else on the planet," Raupp says. "The abundance of these cicadas is going to be amazing."
What's the Buzz?
Brood 10 is a family of periodical cicadas. That means the insects come out every once in a while instead of every year or few years. 
The cicadas emerge when soil temperatures reach 64°F. They crawl out from under the ground and fly up into trees. If you're standing outside, one might land on you. But don't worry: Cicadas aren't dangerous. The insects don't bite or sting. They might just give you a friendly little poke. 
Up in the trees, female cicadas lay their eggs. Then the insects fall to the ground and die. About six weeks later, the eggs develop into nymphs, or young insects. They tumble out of the trees and dig themselves into the earth. That's where they'll spend the next 17 years, feeding on root sap until they're ready to come out again. 
Raupp says it's a drama you just can't miss. "There's going to be birth. There's going to be death. There's going to be predation. There's going to be romance. There are going to be songs," he says. "Just go out and enjoy these things. This is only going to happen a handful of times in your lifetime." 
|||||Spring is here, and summer is on the way. But the COVID-19 pandemic isn’t over yet. What can we do to get our lives back? When can we finally relax and take our masks off?
Dr. Rochelle P. Walensky has some answers. She’s the director of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Dr. Walensky leads the agency’s 21,000 employees, who work to protect Americans’ health and safety. Before moving to CDC headquarters, in Georgia, Dr. Walensky worked at Massachusetts General Hospital and taught at Harvard Medical School. She has spent her life working to understand and battle diseases. 
Recently, the CDC announced that kids ages 12 to 15 can get the COVID-19 vaccine. It also announced that fully vaccinated people no longer need to wear masks in most situations. I had an opportunity to talk with Dr. Walensky about these important developments, and to ask her questions from TFK Kid Reporters. 
I learned that vaccinating kids and adults will move us closer to life as we knew it. This is the first time I’ve ever been excited to get a shot!
This has been a really busy week for you. I'm excited to speak with you. 
The CDC just surprised us by announcing that people who are fully vaccinated don’t have to wear masks most of the time. Does that mean that if you’re fully vaccinated, life can go back to normal?
I think we should first define what fully vaccinated is, so everybody understands. For kids 12 to 18, fully vaccinated means that you got two doses of the Pfizer vaccine, and then you waited two weeks to make sure you were completely through getting your whole immune response. 
We have now said that [fully vaccinated] individuals are safe and can take their mask off. I think it’s going to take some time for us to get back to what we call “normal.” And I think we’re probably going to get back to perhaps even a new, better, safer normal. But I do think that this means that we are taking another giant step to getting back to the lives we once knew. 
What happens if someone who isn’t fully vaccinated doesn’t wear a mask? 
It’s really important to understand that the guidance we put out is about people who are fully vaccinated, and that they are protected. People who are not fully vaccinated continue to not be protected. So guidance for them would be, one, go get vaccinated; two, wear your mask until you’re fully vaccinated. And if you decide not to get fully vaccinated, continue to wear your mask and practice all of the strategies—distancing, masking, handwashing—that we have been recommending for months now.
You also recently announced that kids age 12 to 15 are able to get the COVID vaccine. I just turned 13, and a lot of my friends are eager to get it. Can you tell us more about that decision? 
We have known that the Pfizer vaccine, when it was first authorized, went down to kids ages 16 and up. What they generally do in studies is first, they test them in the adult ages. And then they do different kinds of studies to make sure that they are also safe in kids, and that [kids] are getting the same immune response. 
So we looked at the data, with the Food and Drug Administration [FDA], in over 2,200 kids. And they showed that the vaccine was safe and 100% protective. There were 16 cases of COVID in the kids who didn’t get a vaccine, and none in the kids who did get the vaccine. And in that context, what generally happens is the [FDA] goes first. They authorize the vaccine for this age range. And then the CDC comes in with their Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, and we approve that authorization.
A lot of kids have questions. The other TIME for Kids Kid Reporters shared some with me. Rory from California wants to know: “What impact do you think expanding the vaccine eligibility to 12- to 15-year-olds will have on the pandemic? And how soon will we see that impact?” 
I hope it will have a big impact. I hope teens and tweens will be eager to get the vaccine. I have a 16-year-old. I knew he was particularly eager to get the vaccine because he was then able to go back to seeing his friends again, to go out again, to feel safer going out again.
There are about 17 million kids [in the U.S.] between the ages of 12 to 15. And they are now all eligible to get the Pfizer vaccine. 
What if your parents don’t really want you to get vaccinated? 
That’s certainly going to be a family discussion. What I would encourage teens and parents to do is to get more information. Talk to trusted advisers in your community: your pharmacist, your pediatrician, local health departments, your clergy. Go and talk to them about the benefits and risks of potential vaccination.
Here’s a question from Pranav from New York: “Do the current vaccines effectively protect kids from new and emerging variants of the coronavirus?” 
Great question. We are watching these emerging variants very, very carefully. The data out there now demonstrate that all of our vaccines work to prevent against all the variants that we have here in the United States. And we have no reason to suspect that would be different for kids [than for] for adults.
Many of the TFK Kid Reporters want to know about schools. Here’s a two-part question. Sophia from New Jersey asks: “How will schools handle some students being vaccinated and some not?” And Victoria from Pennsylvania asks: “Do you think that eventually, students will be required to get the COVID-19 vaccine?”
Both of those are really important questions. Just as we’ve released guidance for what you can do if you’re vaccinated, we now have to revise our guidance for how schools are going to handle kids who are vaccinated and [kids] who are not. There are going to be [schools with students] ranging [from] before the age of 12 [to] above the age of 12. And then there are going to be schools that are entirely eligible.
We don’t have any vision right now that we, as a part of a federal government, will require vaccination. Each city and county will make those decisions. I also want to emphasize that we are not one uniform country in terms of how we are doing in a pandemic. Areas in the country have higher rates of vaccination. Other areas have lower rates of vaccination. Similarly, some areas have high rates of disease and low rates of disease. So as schools are making those individual decisions, they’re going to have to look at how their county or city is doing.
Talking about schools, here’s another question. Bellen in Virginia asks: “Were there changes introduced in schools during the pandemic that you recommend keeping? What are some examples?”
As part of our guidance for opening schools, we’ve done a lot of work with the schools. We had distancing, masking, cleaning, ensuring hand sanitizers were around, and ensuring that people who had symptoms had access to testing. And we want to make sure that there’s good ventilation in those schools. 
Many of these things remain important. If students have symptoms, they should be out of school and go get a test. We should keep cleaning surfaces in the school because surfaces, in general, should be clean. Kids should keep their hands clean. They should hand-sanitize. That’s not just good for COVID, but for all respiratory viruses. One of the things that we might be able to relax is, if you’re vaccinated, you might not need to wear a mask. And you probably don’t need to—well, you definitely don’t need to distance if you’re vaccinated. So some of those things are going to be able to be relaxed, depending on the age of [students in] the classroom. And some of them we’ll have to maintain.
Afton from Arizona wants to know: “If I get the vaccine, I’ll be vaccinated this summer. But my three younger sisters won’t. What can I do to help keep them safe?” 
There are so many families who are going to face this challenge, where they have one student who’s vaccinated and younger siblings who are not. That vaccinated student is safe to be out of the house without a mask. But . . . he or she is going to have to promote the safe mitigation strategies that we have been promoting for the last many months to make sure his or her siblings are safe. So continuing to mask, continuing to distance, not being in crowded places until those younger children are eligible for vaccination. 
Abby from Hawaii and Miguel from Texas are both 11. They want to know when they’ll be able to get the vaccine. 
We’re waiting for data from the FDA. We started first with the 16-year-olds. Then we went down to 12. I think the next bracket is going to be down to 9, and then down to 6. We’re really hoping that we’ll see some of those data in the fall and that we’ll be able to get that age range vaccinated soon. 
Bellen from Virginia has another question for you. She asks: “COVID-19 has been a disproportionate burden on some groups. Can you talk about how you are connecting with and serving people from these diverse communities?” 
This is such an important question and one that we at the CDC are really focused on. Before I came to the CDC, I was a doctor in a hospital in Massachusetts. We saw how Hispanic communities, Black and brown communities, were hit hard by this pandemic. They had higher death rates. They had higher rates of hospitalization. What we need to do now is make sure that they have adequate resources [for] vaccination. We are doing an extraordinary amount of outreach. I’m really pleased to say that just this past week, we’ve put some more data on the CDC website that demonstrates that we’re making enormous strides in getting vaccination to the most vulnerable communities.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
|||||Kara Winger is the United States women’s record holder in the javelin. She used to train indoors. But after the COVID-19 pandemic hit last year, she couldn’t anymore. So Winger and her husband threaded a 30-foot cable through a metal tube. They ran the cable from their back fence to their house. Winger throws the tube to replicate throwing a javelin. The tube was once part of a cupcake stand that her husband built for their wedding. “Both were made with love,” Winger told TIME. 
TUBE TOSS Olympic javelin thrower Kara Winger trains in Colorado Springs, Colorado, in April 2020.
On March 24, 2020, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) postponed the Summer Olympics (see “History Lesson”). Now the rescheduled Summer Olympics are only months away. They’re set to begin in Tokyo, Japan, in July. All over the world, athletes are finding creative ways to keep their bodies and minds sharp.
CANOE IN THE SKY Adam Burgess, a British slalom canoeist, trains at home in England.
Staying in Shape
During lockdown periods, a wrestler from Norway did push-ups with his baby on his back. A pentathlete from Poland did squats while holding her dog. And a climber from the U.S. crawled along her kitchen counter. She scaled the underside of her stairs. Then she crawled across her fireplace chimney like Spider-Woman.
COUCH CRUNCH Jordanian judo athlete Hadeel Alami uses her sofa to stay fit on April 9, 2020.
Lilly King is a double gold-medalist swimmer. She swam laps in a pond. It’s in Bloomington, Indiana. “Once I saw a snapping turtle, I hightailed it out of there!” King says.
Some Olympic athletes have been able to return to indoor training spaces. Others will need to keep relying on their creativity. In certain areas, COVID-19 numbers are on the rise. 
U.S. fencer Daryl Homer trains in New York City. “[We] don’t know if the gym is going to be open tomorrow,” he says.
OUTDOOR SESSION Gymnast Dilan Jiménez, from Colombia, practices on his roof on August 14, 2020.
Mental Wellness
In May 2020, the IOC surveyed more than 3,000 athletes. Half said “keeping myself motivated” was a major challenge. Nearly a third said “managing my mental health” was hard too. 
Olympic officials say the Tokyo Games will go on. Athletes continue to train. But after last year’s postponement, they know nothing is certain. “It’s tough,” Angelica Delgado says. She’s a U.S. judo athlete. “But if I worried about every possible thing that could go wrong, I’d never compete again.”
Perspective helps. “This is a pandemic that’s affecting everyone in the world,” Matthew Centrowitz says. He’s a U.S. runner. “This is much bigger than us, much bigger than sport.”
SIGN OF THE GAMES On January 22, people take a photo with the Olympic rings in Tokyo, Japan.
Sean McCann is a senior sport psychologist for the U.S. Olympic & Paralympic Committee. He worries about the stress athletes are facing. “It’s been a long haul,” McCann says. “We’ve got to still keep doing the basics and taking care of ourselves physically, socially, emotionally.”
History Lesson
The IOC’s March 2020 announcement was historic. Never before had an Olympic Games been postponed to another year. But Olympic Games have been canceled. 
Cancellations were because of major global conflicts. The 1916 Olympic Games were canceled because of World War I. There was only one set of Olympic Games then. In 1940 and 1944, Winter and Summer Games were canceled. That was because of World War II.
|||||The violin is a stringed instrument. It is the smallest instrument in the string family. Learn about the parts of a violin. 
A player holds the violin by the neck. He or she presses the strings in different places to play different notes. 

A violin has four strings. Each string has a different thickness. Each makes a different sound. 

A violin is played with a bow. Bows are made of wood and horsehair. A player holds the wooden stick. He or she slides the horsehair across the strings.

This is the violin’s body. A player holds it between his or her chin and shoulder. The body is hollow. This makes the sound louder. 
|||||Drones can save lives. The drone in this picture is a Zipline drone. It is being launched. A Zipline drone carries medical supplies. It takes them to people who are sick and far from help. A young girl in Africa was very ill. She needed new blood to get better. It would take hours to send the blood by car. Time was running out. So Zipline carried blood to the girl. It took only six minutes for the drone to fly to the hospital. The girl got better. The drone saved her life!  
|||||Trains have changed over time. They look different from how they used to look. They’ve gotten faster, too. Here’s how trains have changed.
Then
The DeWitt Clinton train began running in New York in 1831. It was powered by steam. The train was slow and loud. 
Now
The Shanghai maglev train began running in China in 2002. Magnets make it move. The train is fast and quiet. 
|||||Computers need instructions. That’s where coders come in. Coders write programs. Programs tell a computer what to do. Here’s the scoop on coding. 
Problem Solvers
Coders solve problems. They work together. They are creative. Coders are sometimes called programmers.
A Fun Job 
Coders make websites. They also make applications, or apps. An app is a type of program. Apps can be used to play games, check the weather, and more. 
Coding Languages
People around the world understand different languages. Computers understand different languages too. Coding uses words, letters, numbers, and symbols. 
Coding for Kids
Coding is for everyone, even kids! There are books, toys, and games that teach kids how to code. 
Did You Know?
This is an abacus. It is a tool for counting. Some say it is the oldest type of computer. The abacus was invented more than 3,000 years ago. People still use them today. 
|||||Olympians will soon be dancing for gold medals. On December 7, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) announced that breaking will be included in the 2024 Olympics. The Games will take place in Paris, France. 
Breaking is also known as breakdancing. It began in New York City about 50 years ago. 
"It was always neighborhoods of kids just battling each other," Victor Montalvo told USA Today. He's a professional breakdancer. "Now, it's big-stage competitions."
Breaking isn't the only new Olympic sport. Skateboarding, sport climbing, and surfing will debut next summer in Tokyo, Japan. The 2020 Olympics were postponed because of the coronavirus pandemic. 
The IOC says the 2024 Olympics will be "fit for a post-corona world." There will be fewer athletes and events. There will also be gender equality. The same number of male and female athletes will participate in the Games. That's an Olympic first. And there will be 22 mixed-gender events.  
Stop and Think! Why did the author choose the headline “Breaking News”? What other headlines might have worked?
|||||Having everything you need close to home could make you healthier. It could even build stronger bonds between you and your neighbors. 
This is the idea behind the 15-minute city. It’s a place where people can get all the services they need within 15 minutes of home, on foot or by bike. This model is being developed in cities around the world. 
Carlos Moreno is a scientific director at IAE Paris Sorbonne Business School, in France. He’s also a key theorist behind the 15-minute-city plan for Paris. “My vision is a livable city that increases the quality of life,” Moreno told TIME for Kids. 
Healthier Living
Moreno’s vision was inspired by the need to fight climate change. In a 15-minute city, car travel is not a priority. The focus is on building more sidewalks and bike lanes. Moreno says walking or biking “is a good way to radically reduce carbon dioxide emissions.” 
Anne Hidalgo is Paris’s mayor. She plans to build 15-minute communities all over the city. That means removing 60,000 parking spaces by 2024. Bike lanes would run along every street. 
This design does more than benefit the planet. It promotes a healthier way of life. 
Joe Zehnder is chief planner for the city of Portland, Oregon. He’s developing “20-minute neighborhoods.” Having grocery stores close to home gives people better access to healthy foods, Zehnder says. That gives them “the ability to make healthier choices.” 
Welcome Home 
Zehnder has another important goal: to make neighborhoods inclusive. 
As a neighborhood becomes more convenient, housing costs can increase. This leaves a lot of people out. Zehnder’s plan is to “create more housing of more types.” That way, “households in different economic situations can live there,” he says.
Moreno supports this. He says the “new economic and social model” should be to create places that all people can call home. 
|||||Writers work on all sorts of things. They create the books we read, the games we play, the songs we listen to, and more. Meet four professional writers. Each does a different type of writing. 
Writing a World
Video games are visual. But what pulls everything together? The story. That is where a video-game writer comes in. 
James Pugh writes stories for Lego video games. He also writes what the characters say. While he works, he must think about every part of the game. “It’s very much a collaborative process,” Pugh told TIME for Kids. —By Karena Phan
On the Screen 

As a kid, Taneka Stotts loved cartoons. But she didn’t think that writing them was a job. Now, Stotts is a screenwriter. That is someone who writes for movies and television. Stotts has worked on the cartoon Steven Universe Future. She has also worked on Craig of the Creek.
“I love hearing voice actors speak the lines I have written,” Stotts told TFK. —By Constance Gibbs 
Food and Culture
Andrea Nguyen moved to the United States from Vietnam when she was 6 years old. “I struggled so much with English and writing,” she told TFK.
Now Nguyen lives in California. She works as a food and recipe writer. She writes cookbooks. She also runs a Vietnamese cooking website. It is called Viet World Kitchen. Food writing “means so much to me,” Nguyen says. —By Allison Singer
Say It in Song
Grace VanderWaal is a songwriter. She is 16 years old. In 2016, she won the competition show America’s Got Talent. She was 12 years old. She impressed viewers with a song she had written. 
Since then, Grace has written many more songs. She tries to write about her feelings. “I’m constantly inspired by experiencing life,” Grace told TFK. —By Rebecca Mordechai
|||||Clouds are made up of tiny water droplets and other particles. When the water droplets get heavy, they fall to the ground. This is called precipitation. There are different forms of precipitation. Look out! 

Some days are rainy.
Rain is water that falls from clouds in droplets. Rain provides fresh water for people, animals, and plants.
When it’s cold, it snows.
Snow is frozen water. It can snow when the air temperature gets near freezing or below. Snow can pile up. Time for a snowball fight!
There might be hail. 
fabrice coffrini—afp/getty images
Hail forms when water freezes. It forms balls of ice. Hail can be big or small. Hailstorms can cause a lot of damage.
Sometimes, there is sleet.
Sleet is partly frozen rain. Sometimes, snow melts on its way down. Then it freezes again before it lands. Sleet makes the ground slippery.
Did You Know?
Snowflakes are made of ice crystals. They form when crystals stick together. Snowflakes have six sides. No two of them are alike.
|||||March 8 was International Women’s Day. President Joe Biden marked the occasion by signing an executive order. It promotes equal opportunity for women and girls.
The order establishes the White House Gender Policy Council. The group will support gender equity in United States government policies. These policies affect people in the U.S. and around the world.
Jennifer Klein and Julissa Reynoso will lead the council. Klein was an adviser to Hillary Clinton when Clinton was secretary of state. Reynoso is chief of staff to First Lady Jill Biden.
Reynoso says the council will work for women’s access to things like healthcare and education. “This is a matter of human rights [and] justice,” she told reporters on March 8.
The council is not the first of its kind. But it could be the most influential. “We intend to address all sorts of discrimination,” Klein said. “[We will] fight for equal rights for people . . . LGBTQ+ people, women, girls, [or] men.”
Stop and Think! What quotes does the article include? What do these quotes tell you about the Gender Policy Council?
|||||A paleontologist is someone who hunts for fossils. Paleontologists have made discoveries all over the world. They have found dinosaur bones on every continent. Have you heard of these dinosaurs?
Many Tyrannosaurus rex bones have been found in a rock formation in Montana.
An iguanodon fossil was first found here in 1825. Scientists are still finding iguanodon footprints here. 
The discovery of this dinosaur taught the world something new. Dinosaurs may have had feathers!

A titanosaur skeleton was uncovered in Australia. Scientists nicknamed it Wade.
Longer than a T. rex, this dinosaur was first found in Morocco. It lived in water and was an excellent swimmer.
This gigantic dino was first found in Argentina in 1987. Can you guess how it got its name?
|||||In Africa, people dance for many reasons. They dance in celebration. They dance as a type of prayer. AFRICAN DANCE brings people together. There are many styles. Some dancers wear masks. Some wear costumes. But most dancers move to the beat of a drum. The dancers in this picture are from Kenya. That is a country in Africa. They are doing a traditional African dance called adamu. They use their voices as instruments. 

Quincy Simmons is 9 years old. He is part of the Harambee Kids Dance Company. It is an African dance group in New York City. 
“I like how I get to express myself when I dance,” Quincy told TIME for Kids.  
|||||On April 20, a 12-person jury in Minneapolis, Minnesota, found former police officer Derek Chauvin guilty of the murder of George Floyd. Chauvin killed Floyd during an arrest in Minneapolis on May 25, 2020. A bystander captured the event on her phone and shared the video on social media. It sparked anti-racism protests around the world.
The jury made its decision after a three-week trial. People who took the stand included medical experts, police officers, and witnesses to Floyd’s death. The verdict could send Chauvin to prison for decades. The judge will determine his sentence in about eight weeks.
Floyd’s younger brother Philonise talked to the press about the verdict. He spoke about the history of violence against Black people in the United States. This time, he said, the violence was captured on camera for the world to see. He spoke again about the verdict the next day: “It makes us happier knowing that [George’s] life, it mattered, and he didn’t die in vain.”
President Joe Biden spoke after the verdict. He said Floyd’s death “ripped the blinders off for the whole world” to see systemic racism. But he added that more laws are needed to fight racism and violence. “We can’t stop here. In order to deliver real change and reform, we can and we must do more to reduce the likelihood that tragedies like this will ever happen and occur again.”
|||||A member of the Wiikwemkoong First Nation, Autumn Peltier, 16, lives in Canada. She advocates for clean water for that country’s indigenous people. TFK Kid Reporter Pranav Mukhi spoke with her about the power of youth activism.

1. What does water mean to First Nations people?

We believe that we are part of the land, and that we come from the land. We learn that we have a right to protect the land and protect the water.

2. What problems do indigenous communities in Canada face when it comes to water?

They often have little access to clean drinking water because of landfills, oil spills, or old mining sites. For more than 20 years, these communities have been told to boil their water. Canadians have little awareness of this issue.
3. I heard that you took your concerns to Justin Trudeau, the prime minister of Canada.

I met him in 2016. I was told not to say anything to him, just to give him a gift. When he reached for the gift, I pulled back. I said, “I’m very unhappy with the choices you made and the broken promises to my people,” and I started crying. He said, “I will protect the water.”

4. What has the prime minister done since then?

He promised to solve all boil-water advisories in Canada by March 2021. But there are still 54 advisories in First Nations communities, 44 in Ontario alone. Ontario has suffered the most, with poor housing and sanitation, and not having drinking water.
5. You are the chief water commissioner representing 39 First Nations in Ontario. What is your role?
I take ideas, questions, and concerns about water from the communities to our council leaders. And I have a say in decision-making.

6. Do you ever work with other water activists?
I meet many youth advocates for the environment in my travels. I know a lot of children my age, some older and some younger, who are doing the same work. It gives me hope and courage to know there are others out there.

7. What can be done to protect the world’s water?

There are industries that are trying to do things like dump toxic waste into the Great Lakes. We can’t change these industries. But we can try to talk to them and raise our concerns. Clean drinking water is a basic human right. It doesn’t matter what color our skin is. It doesn’t matter if we’re rich or poor.

8. What would you tell kids who want to speak out on behalf of others or the environment?

It is important to speak up on behalf of those who are too afraid to speak up. It can be as easy as writing a letter to your local leaders. The message is so much more powerful when it comes from a young person. You can be the light in someone’s darkness. 
This interview has been edited for length and clarity. 
|||||Humans use language to communicate. Animals communicate, too. Find out how. 
Some animals use sound.
 Each penguin has a special call. Other penguins hear the sound and know who is calling.
Some animals light up. 
Jellyfish can make their bodies glow. They light up when a predator comes near. The light scares the predator away. 
Some animals 
use movement.
 Fiddler crabs wave their claws in the air. They do this to attract a mate. 
Some animals use color.
 An octopus changes its color. A light color means the octopus is friendly. A dark color means it is angry. 
Did You Know?
Dolphins don’t have ears. But they understand sounds made by other dolphins. How? Sound makes vibrations in water. Dolphins feel the vibrations in their jawbone.
|||||Legend has it that in the 1970s, a boat captain spotted a green banana peel floating above a sinkhole about 50 miles off the coast of Florida. That sinkhole is now known as the Green Banana.  
A sinkhole is a hollow place in the Earth in which water collects. The Green Banana sinkhole starts about 160 feet below the ocean’s surface and goes another 265 feet down. Scientists think it formed thousands of years ago. Sea levels were low then, exposing porous rock. Over the years, rain dissolved the rock and carved a hole in it. Since then, sea levels have risen and covered the hole with water.
Emily Hall is a senior scientist at Mote Marine Laboratory, in Florida. In August and September, she led the first-ever scientific mission to the Green Banana. Its findings will help us better understand sinkholes. “We’re learning about how unique they are,” Hall told TIME for Kids, “and why they might be important to the ecosystem.” 
Diving to Discover
The seawater in sinkholes is unusual. It’s richer in nutrients than the surrounding waters. Microscopic algae called phytoplankton feed on the nutrients. Small fish feed on the algae. Larger fish feed on small fish. Because of this diversity of life, Hall calls sinkholes “oases of the sea.” 
But there could be a downside to this abundance. Scientists wonder if the nutrients are causing red tide. This happens when algae grow out of control. Some species of algae release toxins that kill marine life.
Hall says these algae species were found in the Green Banana. “Could there be a connection between red tide and nutrients in these holes?” Hall asks. “We hope to investigate in the future.”
Mission Challenges 
Exploring the Green Banana isn’t easy. Only divers trained to swim below 130 feet can reach it. Jim Culter is one of these divers. Like Hall, he’s also a senior scientist at Mote Marine Laboratory. During the mission, Culter swam to depths of more than 300 feet. “We tried to reduce the number of divers going in because [of the] risk,” he says.
Scientists will return to the Green Banana in May, to see how it might have changed since their first visit. Culter is gearing up for the dive. “No matter how many times you go down,” he says, “it can be quite dramatic.”

|||||ArcelorMittal Orbit
Think art’s not exciting? The monumental ArcelorMittal Orbit sculpture, at Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, in London, will change that. The 376-foot-tall sculpture was created by artist Anish Kapoor and engineer Cecil Balmond. It’s wrapped in a serpentine, 584-foot tunnel slide designed by artist Carsten Höller. It’s the longest and tallest tunnel slide in the world. Riders strap on a helmet and hurtle through 12 hairpin turns. The ride ends with a corkscrew portion named after the German word for bedspring. Along the way, riders catch glimpses of the London skyline through the slide’s transparent sections. If this 40 seconds of hair-raising fun doesn’t get your adrenaline going, nothing will. —Brian S. McGrath

Artists at Play
Artists at Play is a playground with a creative spirit. This imaginative space is located at the Seattle Center. It was designed by artists from the Pacific Northwest, with input from local kids. The result includes many traditional playground features—but with a twist. There’s a 38-foot-long curly slide, an ADA-accessible, human-powered carousel, and a song fence that looks like a giant pan flute. There’s also a 30-foot climbing tower, as well as a labyrinth that leads to a bronze rebus, where kids can practice their riddle-cracking skills. —Karena Phan

Canada’s Wonderland
When Yukon Striker opened at Canada’s Wonderland in May 2019, it was the fastest and longest dive roller coaster in the world. Riders pause for a queasy three seconds over a 90-degree drop. Then they fall 245 feet into an underwater tunnel, reaching speeds of 81 miles per hour. The ride was inspired by the Canadian gold rush of the 1890s. Adventurers braved rough terrain in search of the precious metal hidden in the Yukon Territory. Grace Peacock works for Canada’s Wonderland. She says the park is keeping that spirit alive. “We like to keep the thrills going,” she says. “And I tend to find that the kids are braver than the adults on these rides.” —Ellen Nam

City Museum
City Museum is housed in a sprawling, 10-story, 600,000-square-foot former shoe warehouse. A school bus dangles from the building’s roof. The ultimate jungle gym extends from the windows. And that’s just where the magic begins. Inside City Museum are dark caves, crashing waters, and secret passageways—plus all the ramps, domes, tunnels, chutes, and slides a kid could want. Most of City Museum’s attractions are made of recycled materials. “City Museum is an evolving sculpture,” says general manager Rick Erwin. “It’s like the world’s largest playground.” —Rebecca Katzman

CopenHill
CopenHill is a clean power plant that creates energy by burning waste instead of fossil fuels. But the facility, which opened in October, has something else that makes it special: It does its part to make sustainable living fun. The roof features a public park and a recreation center that includes the world’s tallest artificial climbing wall, a hiking trail, gardens, and a 1,300-foot artificial ski slope. The slope is designed to provide the sensation of skiing. But it doesn’t rely on cold temperatures or machine-made snow. That means visitors can enjoy year-round, Earth-friendly fun. —Rebecca Katzman 

Escape
Nature and thrills meet face-to-face at Escape, an unconventional theme park in the forests of Malaysia. Escape champions a low-tech, high-energy form of play. Climbing trees, launching yourself from branches, and jumping into rivers are part of the fun. One popular attraction is Monkey Business. It’s a rope course filled with obstacles and zip lines. Banana Flip is a waterslide that launches riders high into the air. Escape recently completed construction on the world’s largest waterslide. It takes "four minutes to ride all the way through the trees and monkeys to the very bottom,” says sales-and-marketing executive Yang Yang. Also impressive: The slide was built without heavy machinery, so construction wouldn't harm wildlife. —Rebecca Katzman

Evermore Park
Walk into a fantasy world and choose your own adventure at Evermore, an immersive-experience theme park. The park resembles an old European village. It gives visitors a chance to meet all kinds of characters, including elves, mages, and faeries. Every season there’s a new theme based on a different Evermore myth. That means there’s always something new to discover. Go on scavenger hunts, complete quests, and take on challenges such as archery or ax throwing. “Everyone experiences and plays Evermore differently,” said Ken Bretschneider. He’s the park’s CEO and founder. “Our goal is to create these fantastical stories you get to fully step into and be fully immersed in.” —Karena Phan 

Lego House 
From the outside, the 130,000-square-foot Lego House looks like a large-scale version of a kid’s creation. Inside, visitors can explore everything the classic toys can do. The experience begins at the Tree of Creativity, which was crafted using more than 6 million bricks. It’s one of the largest Lego structures ever built. At the 6 Bricks Factory, guests collect a pack of a half dozen Legos that were made on-site. Each set shows visitors one of the more than 915 million possible ways those six bricks can be combined. —Constance Gibbs

Music Box Village
Music Box Village is a collection of small musical houses created by New Orleans artists. When visitors interact with the houses, the structures let out whistles, groans, hums, grunts, chirps, and other sounds. The results are part symphony, part cacophony. A recent addition comes from deaf artist Christine Sun Kim. She helped create Elevator Pitch, which was inspired by a game she played with her deaf friends as a child. Inside an elevator, they screamed at the top of their voices, loud enough to feel the vibrations. Inside Elevator Pitch, visitors are invited to press a button. When they do, they can feel the powerful vibrations created by deaf people’s voices. —Rebecca Mordechai

Oasis of the Seas
Oasis of the Seas, from Royal Caribbean International, is one of the largest cruise ships in the world. The vessel launched about a decade ago. But in 2019, it underwent a massive, $165-million renovation. In November, the revamped Oasis set sail in the Caribbean. The ship is so huge it’s broken into seven neighborhoods. One of these, the Youth Zone, is just for kids. On board the ship, kids have their pick of activities. These include laser tag, an escape room, and a giant slide called the Ultimate Abyss. This 10-story thriller is the tallest slide on the high seas. —Ellen Nam

Otherworld
Otherworld is an art installation built by more than 40 artists. They filled a 32,000-square-foot facility with large-scale works, secret passages, and playgrounds that blur the line between virtual and digital. Each of Otherworld’s 47 rooms is designed to resemble a science-fiction fantasyland. Visitors are encouraged to explore freely. Kids can fill in magical coloring books and solve puzzles. Those who are feeling adventurous can crawl into the mouth of a giant fuzzy monster. “We want young readers to look at the world and think of new and fun ways to use the things they see,” operations director John Umland says. —Ellen Nam

Pacific Wheel at Pacific Park
Santa Monica Pier is a well-known destination. “It has been featured in more than a thousand different movies, TV shows, and music videos,” says Nathan Smithson, who works at the pier. The Pacific Park amusement complex features classic rides and games. But the park’s centerpiece has a futuristic twist: It’s the world’s only solar-powered Ferris wheel. The eco-friendly attraction uses LED lighting. It’s more energy-efficient than the bulbs used on traditional wheels. And the structure itself is powered by the sun. That means the ride—which carries you up nine stories, until you’re hanging some 130 feet above the Pacific Ocean—comes with minimal environmental impact. —Karena Phan

Star Wars: Galaxy’s Edge at Walt Disney World 
Visiting Disney World's new Star Wars attraction is like entering a galaxy far, far away. Galaxy's Edge opened in 2019 at Disney's Hollywood studios. Aspiring Jedi build their own lightsabers to prepare for battle. Then they blast off in the Millennium Falcon to embark on an interactive smuggling operation. When the mission is complete, they can refuel with Luke Skywalker’s favorite drink, blue milk, before stopping at the Droid Depot. There, they can customize their own droid friend to take along when they return to their home planet. —Constance Gibbs

The Dr. Seuss Experience
Dr. Seuss stories come to life at the Dr. Seuss Experience. This traveling 15,000-square-foot installation transforms the beloved author’s books into an interactive adventure. Susan Brandt is the president of Dr. Seuss Enterprises. She says the project “introduces kids to the Dr. Seuss world in a new and unique way.” Visitors can walk through a balloon-filled maze inspired by Oh, the Places You’ll Go!, wander among Truffula Trees from The Lorax, and take a ride on a Seuss-themed carousel. The Dr. Seuss Experience kicked off in the fall, in Toronto, Canada. It will travel to multiple cities across the United States. —Rebecca Mordechai 

Gathering Place
Historically, Tulsa, Oklahoma, has struggled with inequality. Local philanthropist George B. Kaiser wanted to help fix that. His approach: to help fund the creation of a $465 million park on the city’s waterfront. Gathering Place opened in 2018. It’s free and open to the public, and it was designed to bring the people of Tulsa together. The park features a BMX track, a skate park, a pond, and public art exhibits. There’s also a five-acre adventure playground, complete with climbing towers, a water feature so impressive it’s called Charlie’s Water Mountain, and a sensory garden that encourages visitors to experience the park using all five senses. “Play is universal,” says executive director Tony Moore. “It doesn’t matter the color of your skin.” —Shay Maunz

The original version of this story misstated how far along Escape was in building the world's largest waterslide. The theme park recently completed construction on the waterslide, they are not in the process of building it.  
|||||Computer algorithms are instructions that tell machines to solve problems and make predictions. They help us use our smartphones and stream videos. Someday, they’ll drive our cars.
Can algorithms make us more creative? Some artists think so. They are using algorithms to produce surprising artworks. Here are three of those artists.
Painting With Robots
TEAMWORK Sougwen Chung works with a team of robots to paint spirals and swirls on a canvas.
Sougwen Chung uses computers to be more creative. Chung is based in New York City. She works with a set of robots called DOUG. DOUG can be a robotic arm fitted with a pencil or paintbrush, or it can be a team of robots.
Chung programmed DOUG to paint. She gathered 20 years of her drawings and made digital copies, then saved these copies in DOUG’s memory bank. As Chung paints on a canvas, so does the robot. From “memory,” it makes a stroke that Chung might make. Artist and machine work together.
Chung and DOUG often perform for an audience. The artwork they make is always a surprise, and that’s the fun of it, Chung says. “The second I know what’s happening in those performances, I’ll probably stop doing them. For now, I like the energy it gives to the work.” 
Cutting-Edge Architecture
STRANGE FORMS A spectator examines a column created with algorithm technology.
“We are drawn to things that make us curious,” says Michael Hansmeyer. He’s an architect based in Germany and Switzerland.
Take the column pictured above. It started as a simple shape: a cylinder. Hansmeyer programmed a computer to fold a digital cylinder again and again. This produced countless new details. The result would have been impossible to draw.
A laser cutter shaped the actual column. About 3,000 slices of cardboard were made and stacked on top of one another. Hansmeyer has also made columns out of sandstone using a 3D printer.
The columns were put on display. Signs read “Do Not Touch.” “But everybody reached out and touched them,” Hansmeyer says. “In a way, that was the greatest compliment.” 
Color By Numbers
IN THE BOX This work charts CO2 emission data from 2010 for every country in the world.
Ben Shneiderman, a computer scientist at the University of Maryland, doesn’t call himself an artist. “But I aspire to be an artist,” he says.
In the 1990s, Shneiderman was looking for a way to see all the data contained on a computer hard drive. It dawned on him to make a digital map. He designed an algorithm that could organize information into shapes of different sizes and colors. The maps were not only useful: They looked like art.
Shneiderman has mapped everything from sports statistics to population growth. Several of his works now belong to the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. “There’s a lot of unity between art and science,” he says. “You don’t have to choose one or the other. You can have both in your life.” 
|||||On September 1, Hurricane Dorian hit the Bahamas. It damaged houses. It flooded neighborhoods. It left people without food and water.
After the storm, a team of chefs sprang into action. The team was led by chef José Andrés. He is the founder of World Central Kitchen (WCK). The group cooks meals for people who survive natural disasters and emergencies.
Chef José Andrés serves food to survivors of California’s Camp Fire, in 2018.
After Hurricane Dorian, WCK set up temporary kitchens. Its chefs and helpers began cooking about 30,000 meals a day. The meals were healthy and fresh. The group delivered them to schools, clinics, and churches.
WCK chefs know how to quickly cook large amounts of food. They use giant pans to cook everything from pasta to jambalaya. This way, they can cook for 500 people at a time.

WCK has about 25 staff members. But a lot of the work is done by volunteers. “We will make it to everyone who needs food,” Andrés told TIME for Kids.
|||||There is a big difference between a rainforest and a desert. Water! Water makes a rainforest wet and green. But a desert gets very little water. That is why it is dry. Read on to compare these two habitats.
The Rainforest
This jaguar lives in the Amazon rainforest, in South America.
Rainforests are full of big trees. Some are 200 feet tall. Their branches and leaves form a canopy overhead. Many animals live in the rainforest. Most of them live in the canopy. 
Thick clouds gather above a rainforest. They make it humid. Rain is common.
The Desert
A cactus wren sits on a cactus in a desert in North America.
Deserts do not get much rain. They are hot and dry. But they are home to many living things. 
Cactuses are plants that grow in the desert. They soak up water when it rains. They store water until the next rainfall. 
Many desert animals come out only at night. The air is cooler then.
|||||The world is full of amazing landmarks. Some are tall. Some are long. Some are thousands of years old. Learn about famous structures in five countries. Which structure is your favorite?
The United States
The Gateway Arch is in St. Louis, Missouri. It is sometimes called the Gateway to the West. The arch is 630 feet tall. It is made of concrete and steel
France
The Eiffel Tower was built for the 1889 World’s Fair, in Paris, France. It is made of iron. This landmark was built in two years, two months, and five days. 
China
The Great Wall of China took thousands of years to build. It was made to protect China. The wall was once more than 13,000 miles long.   
India
The Taj Mahal is made of white marble. Emperor Shah Jahan had it built to honor his wife. The structure is known for its symmetry.  Do both sides look the same?
Egypt
The pyramids of Giza are almost 5,000 years old. They are made from heavy blocks of stone. Three Egyptian kings, called pharaohs, ordered these pyramids to be built.  
|||||Most polar bears could disappear by the end of the century. Global warming is to blame. This is according to a recent study. It was published by Nature Climate Change. 
The study says most polar bear populations will drop by 2080. The cause is melting sea ice. Polar bears hunt seals on the ice. Without ice, the bears must roam on the shore. On land, they are away from their main food source. That means they could go hungry.
Marika Holland is one of the authors of the study. She says it is up to us to save polar bears. “I believe that there is hope,” she says. “But humans need to act quickly to turn that hope into a reality.”
|||||Louis Druehl is a seaweed farmer. He lives and works in Bamfield, British Columbia. That’s in Canada. He has been farming kelp since 1982. Kelp is a brown seaweed. 
Louis Druehl (above) works at a seaweed farm, where long ropes of seaweed grow under the water.

Druehl has studied seaweed. He’s cooked seaweed. He’s even written a book about it. Druehl says the world is turning to seaweed as a solution to climate change. “People have discovered seaweed,” he told TIME. “They’ve discovered us.”

Super Seaweed 
Seaweed can be used to make fuel. It can also be used to make renewable plastics. Plus, it takes carbon out of the environment. This is good for the health of the planet. 
Bamfield sits at the edge of the water.

Some researchers say seaweed is even better for the environment than trees are. Seaweed doesn’t need fertilizers. It doesn’t need fresh water or land. And it grows fast.
Rae Hopkins is Louis Druehl’s cofounder at Canadian Kelp Resources. Here, she hangs seaweed to dry.

Seaweed could also be a global food source. Carlos Duarte is a professor of ecology. “To feed the world population by 2050, in a way that doesn’t harm the environment, there is only one pathway,” he says. “Seaweed farming.” 
Seaweed farming is not new. Native people of Canada have been farming it for thousands of years. Many of them have left the area to find work. Now, a booming seaweed industry could bring jobs to many people. This includes those who lost their jobs during the pandemic.
Possible Problems
Seaweed may slow climate change. But there are risks. When it rots, it releases carbon. And too much seaweed could affect how much light reaches underwater creatures.

Halley Froehlich works at the University of California, Santa Barbara. She says seaweed “can be a part of the solution” to climate change. But it’s not a solution on its own.
|||||When Caster Pettway, 67, was a girl, there were always quilts around. They were on the beds and couches in her house. Sometimes, her mother would hang a quilt on the porch to show it off to the neighbors. She always seemed to be sewing a new one. “And everybody in every house, they did the same thing,” Pettway told TIME for Kids.
Pettway grew up in Gee’s Bend, Alabama, a tiny community on the Alabama River. Many of its residents are descended from enslaved people who worked on a cotton plantation there, started in 1816 by Joseph Gee.
When Caster was growing up, in the 1960s, Gee’s Bend was a remote community of cotton farmers. Now, the town is seen as the birthplace of an important art form.
A New Style
Women in Gee’s Bend took up quilting sometime in the 1800s. At first, they made quilts out of necessity: They needed blankets to keep warm. They didn’t have proper fabric, so they cut up old clothing and sacks, and sewed the scraps together.
Over time, these women developed a unique style. They didn’t use patterns seen in traditional quilts. They improvised. They cut their fabric into large, often irregular shapes. Their bold, beautiful quilts were unlike any others in the world. 
SHARING THE TRADITION A quilter in Gee’s Bend works with two helpers.
 
In 1998, art collector William Arnett saw a photo of a Gee’s Bend quilt. He was so impressed that he visited the town and bought the quilt. He returned again and again. In 2002, Arnett arranged to display these quilts in museums and galleries around the country.
They took the art world by storm. Many experts compared the Gee’s Bend quilts to paintings by European artists like Henri Matisse. A critic for the New York Times called the quilts “some of the most miraculous works of modern art America has produced.”

A New Generation


Today, locals are making sure that the community benefits from its renown. In February, Gee’s Bend quilters began selling their work online for the first time. Leaders are promoting the town as a tourist destination. 

This has inspired the next generation to carry on the tradition. 
Pettway says some of her young family members have taken up the craft. “And I’ll tell you what,” she says. “They’re getting pretty good.”
|||||As of November 5, two days after Election Day, no winner had been declared in the 2020 presidential election. Because of the coronavirus pandemic, many more people voted early or by mail. At press time, mail-in and absentee ballots were still being counted.
Election experts say it’s important to be patient while waiting for the official vote count. They say it could be days, or even weeks, before Americans know the outcome of the election.
Donald Trump and former vice president Joe Biden both still have a chance to win. A few states have yet to award their electoral votes. Ballots are still being counted in battleground states such as Georgia and Pennsylvania. These states will play a big part in determining the winner.
Both candidates addressed the nation early on November 4. Trump said his team is “getting ready to win this election.” Biden said his team feels “good about where we are.”
This story appears in the November 13, 2020, print edition of TIME for Kids. It was published online on the afternoon of November 5. It has not been updated.
|||||To stop the spread of the new coronavirus, schools around the world have closed. Students have been learning from home. TIME for Kids editor Rebecca Katzman talked to five kids about what it has been like. 
Lucy, Age 7
New York, U.S.A.
It is very different not being at school. But I stay connected with my class over video. We have been doing a lot of reading and writing. I am reading and writing about sea turtles. I tune in to P.E. class on Wednesday afternoons. And I am learning how to cook. Some mornings, I make my own breakfast. The hardest thing about staying home is that I don’t get to see my friends or go to birthday parties. But I enjoy spending more time with my family!
Mavis, Age 7
Hong Kong, China
I have been learning from home for two months. I have my own iPad now. I use it to tune in to class. I use it to keep in touch with teachers and classmates, too. My mom wants me to do more things independently. To practice my math, I play a card game. For music class, I made a song by tapping on glasses of water. I have a ton of books in my bedroom. But I still miss the library. 
Andrea, Age 6
Milan, Italy
I wake up and eat breakfast. Then I study for a few hours. I meet with my teachers and classmates on a video call three days a week. I still have to raise my hand if I want to talk. If the teacher calls on me, I turn on my microphone and speak. Sometimes, I get bored staying at home all day. But not always. It is important for kids to be patient right now. We will be back to our regular lives very soon. 
Elisabeth, Age 7
Berlin, Germany
Learning from home is supercool. I do all the stuff I can’t do when I’m at school. I read, play games, and watch shows on the iPad. My teacher gave us two big folders of worksheets. They have lessons in German, geography, and math. I try to do three to five worksheets every day. But I get distracted because I want to play video games. 
José Tomás, Age 6
Temuco, Chile
Walk with Me  
In the morning, I cuddle with my mom, watch cartoons, and do art projects. I do my assignments for school in the afternoon. My mom finds me videos online. We do P.E. class in my backyard. I get to run around, play, and spin in circles. At home, it can be hard to focus on my schoolwork. But I try to concentrate. I try not to think about everything that is going on. 
|||||Time flies! Before we know it, we’ll be ringing in 2020. But first, the TFK team is taking a look back at 2019. Who was the most important person of the year?
Since 1927, TIME has chosen a Person of the Year. The editors choose the “person or persons who most affected the news and our lives, for good or ill, and embodied what was important about the year, for better or for worse.” That means that the person is not necessarily a hero, and his or her impact is not always positive.
At TIME for Kids, we do it differently. First of all, you help choose. We give you a list of nominees and ask for your vote. Second, we only include people who made a positive impact on the world this year. And finally, we don’t include anyone who ran for elected office in our list of nominees. While politicians have an enormous impact, they’re not the people we want to focus on. Instead, we look for people in a wide range of disciplines and professions who broke barriers, set records, solved problems, and created opportunities.
So who do you think should win? Read on to learn about all eight nominees, then click here or at the bottom of the page to cast your vote. The poll will close on December 5, and we’ll announce the winner in mid-December. Now get to it! Every vote counts. —Andrea Delbanco, Editor-in-Chief
Since 2016, Chef JOSE ANDRES and the team at his nonprofit group, World Central Kitchen, have provided meals to survivors of hurricanes, wildfires, and other emergencies. Most agencies feed survivors prepackaged meals. But Andrés puts his kitchen expertise to use cooking fresh, hot food. In 2019, Hurricane Dorian hit the Bahamas. Andrés and his team sprang into action. At press time, they had served more than 1.75 million meals there. “A hot meal represents love,” Andrés told TFK.
American gymnast SIMONE BILES, 22, continues to break records. This past summer, the 2016 Olympic gold medalist made history by becoming the first woman to successfully perform the triple-double, a double backflip with three twists. This fall, she won her 24th and 25th gold medals, at the Artistic Gymnastics World Championships, in Germany. She now has more world medals than any other gymnast. What does 25 gold medals mean to Biles? “It’s [more] than my age, so I’m pretty thrilled with it,” she said.
KEVIN FEIGE is the top producer behind the Marvel Cinematic Universe. This year, the franchise released Captain Marvel, Avengers: Endgame, and Spider-Man: Far from Home. In 2019, more than $2.7 billion in box-office sales made Endgame the highest-grossing movie ever, and Black Panther was the first Marvel movie nominated for an Oscar. Feige’s Marvel movies are praised for interconnected storytelling and more-inclusive casting, including Brie Larson as Marvel’s first starring female superhero.
On May 30, eight young spellers beat the Scripps National Spelling Bee, forcing the judges to declare them cochampions. Bee rules allow for three winners. But once officials realized how good the final eight competitors were, they made an exception. “We’ll soon run out of words that will challenge you,” said the bee’s official pronouncer, Jacques Bailly. Three perfect rounds later, the OCTOCHAMPS were crowned. The spelling competition will never bee the same!
Author JASON REYNOLDS has written more than a dozen books for kids. They’ve sold millions of copies. He’s a 2019 National Book Awards finalist for Young People’s Literature (winners to be announced on November 20).
 In his books and in real life, Reynolds is concerned with the voices of black children and teenagers. In 2019, he made some 50 visits to classrooms and conferences. His mission: to show readers that he values their stories as much as they value his.
Dutch inventor BOYAN SLAT founded The Ocean Cleanup in 2013. His goal: To get rid of plastics polluting the world’s oceans. This fall, Slat announced that the system was finally working. “I am very proud to share that we are now catching plastics,” he said on October 2.
The device is being used in an area of the Pacific Ocean known as the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. Nearly 2 trillion pieces of trash have collected there. Slat hopes to get half of the trash removed by 2025.
Swedish climate activist GRETA THUNBERG, 16, is the face of the youth movement for climate awareness. Her Fridays for Future protests have inspired millions of young people around the world to follow her lead. In August, Greta set out on a zero-emissions sail across the Atlantic Ocean to speak to world leaders at the 2019 United Nations Climate Action Summit. She was nominated for this year’s Nobel Peace Prize and continues to inspire people of all ages to fight for the health of Planet Earth.
In June, the U.S. WOMEN'S NATIONAL TEAM won its fourth title at the 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup. In doing so, the team broke the record for most wins in tournament history. Players have used their platform to highlight the issue of pay inequality. In March, they sued the U.S. Soccer Federation for discrimination, pointing out that they earn less than male soccer players. By raising their voices, the athletes encourage others to take action.
CLICK HERE TO VOTE!
|||||Keely Burks lives in North Carolina. When she was 14, her school had a uniform policy. It said girls had to wear skirts to school. They were not allowed to wear pants or shorts. Gym class was the only exception.

Many schools require students to wear uniforms. Others have a dress code. Schools say these rules keep the focus on learning, but some students say the rules are unfair.
Keely was one of those students. She wanted to wear pants. Skirts are hard to move around in, she thought. And her legs got cold during recess. Keely spoke out against the uniform policy. She says the school did not listen to her.
These children are dressed in uniforms. Many schools have a policy that tells kids what to wear.
The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) helped Keely and two other students. In March 2016, the ACLU filed a lawsuit against the school.

A judge gave his ruling on March 28, 2019. He said the school’s policy went against the U.S. Constitution. The school changed its policy. Girls can wear skirts, pants, or shorts.
Keely’s 18 now. “I cried when I heard the news,” she told TIME for Kids. Erika Booth’s daughter was also involved in the lawsuit. Booth says her daughter “burst into happy tears,” too.
What should you do if something in your school seems unfair? “Get your parents involved,” says Booth’s daughter. “Talk to other kids. See if they agree with you.”
Keely has some advice, too: “Don’t be afraid to stand up for what you believe in.”
|||||This story was originally published on May 25, 2018. It was updated on May 25, 2021.
Technically, summer doesn’t start until June 20. But many people consider Memorial Day to be the unofficial start of the season. This year, we celebrate the holiday on May 31. Many families will heat up the grill or head to the beach. But Memorial Day has the word memorial in it for a reason.

The national holiday got started on May 30, 1868. Union general John A. Logan declared the day an occasion to decorate the graves of Civil War soldiers. He called it Decoration Day. After World War I, the holiday was more commonly called Memorial Day. 

In 1950, President Harry S. Truman issued a proclamation that broadened the purpose of Memorial Day. He called on Americans to also observe the holiday as a day of prayer for peace. President Richard M. Nixon declared Memorial Day a federal holiday in 1971. 

Memorial Day is now observed on the last Monday of May. It honors the members of the U.S. military who died in American wars. One of the biggest Memorial Day traditions is for the president or vice president to give a speech. Another is for the president or vice president to lay a wreath on soldiers’ graves in the largest U.S. military burial ground, Arlington National Cemetery, in Virginia. 

Most towns have local Memorial Day celebrations. Here are some ways you can honor those who have served our country.

- Put flags or flowers on the graves of people who served in wars.

- Fly the U.S. flag at half-mast until noon.


- Visit monuments dedicated to soldiers, sailors, and marines.

- Participate in the National Moment of Remembrance at 3 p.m. local time.


- March in a parade.
|||||Matthew Walzer was born with cerebral palsy. The disability affects his walking, balance, and fine motor skills. “There were different things I had to do and use, to overcome [my challenges],” he told TIME for Kids.
By 16, Walzer was able to put clothes on by himself. But he still couldn’t tie his shoes. So in 2012, he wrote a letter to the shoe company Nike. He asked if Nike could make shoes to meet his needs. With Walzer’s input, the company will release the Nike Go FlyEase on March 19. They are sneakers that slip on hands-free.
One in four adults lives with a disability. That’s according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. But many say the fashion industry has been slow to make clothes that are accessible. People are working to change that.

Functional Fashion

Gabby Kim Leung is a teacher and the caretaker of her husband, Ben. He’s paralyzed from the waist down. Leung has had trouble finding clothes for him. “I was shopping for weeks, and realized that there was just nothing out there,” she says. “We don’t have any options besides sweatpants and T-shirts.” 

Open Style Lab teaches people about more-inclusive clothing. Grace Jun is its chief executive officer. She says designers tell her it’s “too hard to make adaptive fashion. [But] that is not true.” Designs can have stretchier material, or Velcro instead of buttons.
Christina Mallon, chief brand officer for the group, is paralyzed in both arms. Mallon believes fashion helps people express themselves. “Not being able to express yourself is one of the hardest parts of being disabled,” she says. “It’s just so ignored.”

Some brands have adaptive fashion lines, but Walzer wants more change. “We’ve made great strides since I was young,” he says. “But there’s still so much more work that needs to be done.” 

Walzer encourages those who feel left out to call for change, like he did when he wrote to Nike. “Don’t be afraid to speak up,” he says.
|||||Each year, millions of people hike up to Machu Picchu. It is an ancient site in the mountains of Peru. The trip is tough. Until recently, it was nearly impossible for a person with a physical disability.
   
Wheel the World has changed that. The company runs wheelchair tours of Machu Picchu and other spots around the globe. It was founded by Camilo Navarro and Alvaro Silberstein. Silberstein uses a wheelchair. The friends wanted to go on adventures together. That’s how Wheel the World got its start. 
“Our dream is to help people with disabilities travel to all kinds of places around the world,” Navarro told TIME for Kids. Their tours use a special wheelchair. It is pushed like a wheelbarrow. “It is a super light wheelchair,” Navarro says. “It’s quite strong. It lets you get to every corner, in all types of terrain.” 
Wheel the World wants to give people with disabilities the same opportunities as everyone else. “Lack of accessibility affects all of us,” Navarro says. “It’s important to build a more fair and inclusive world.” 
|||||Humans vote. But did you know that some groups of animals vote too? Here are four animals that vote. Read how they do it.
Meerkats  
Meerkats search for food together. They can vote for the group to search faster. To do this, they let out a special sound. 
Rock Ants

Rock ants vote for new places to live. If enough ants find the same spot, the others are taken there. 
Honeybees
Honeybees look for a new home. How do they vote for one? They dance. The bees move to another place when they dance the same way.
African wild dogs 
How do African wild dogs vote to hunt? With a sneeze. The more the dogs sneeze, the more likely it is they will hunt. Achoo!
|||||TFK Kid Reporter Victoria Hanson cares about polar bears. She talked to experts about why these animals are in danger and how people can help.
Polar bears live mostly within the Arctic Circle. They’ve been on the endangered-species list since 2008. 
DISAPPEARING HABITAT This polar bear is in Nunavut, Canada. It’s standing on a melting ice patch.
I asked Carter Roberts, president and CEO of the World Wildlife Fund, why. His answer was that global warming is to blame. “As warm temperatures melt sea ice, they melt the bears’ habitat,” Roberts told me. “And as the ice melts, scientists predict that polar bear populations will be devastated.”
GOING FOR A SWIM An adult polar bear takes a dip near a glacier in Svalbard, Norway.
So I did some research. Global warming is caused by the burning of fossil fuels. This releases carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Over the past 150 years, people have used more and more engines and other machines. These devices burn fossil fuels such as coal and oil. 
A CUTE CUB Polar bear cubs love to play. This fluffy one seems to wave hello from its den in Wapusk National Park, in Canada.
What’s being done about global warming? I checked in with Benjamin Wilson, an environmental lawyer, to find out. He told me that the United States government has laws that are “designed to protect people, animals, and the environment as a whole.” 
POLAR FOOTPRINTS A polar bear’s paw is about 12 inches wide. Sharp claws help the bear grip the ice.
Wilson’s law firm works to make sure companies follow these rules. It also works with companies that are developing solar and wind energy. These energy sources will reduce the amount of fossil fuels people need and slow global warming—helping to save the polar bear’s habitat.
You Can Help, Too!
PREDATOR AND PREY Polar bears are carnivores. Ringed seals are one of their favorite foods.
Do you love polar bears as much as I do? You can help stop global warming and save their habitat. Here are some ways to reduce the burning of fossil fuels.
 When traveling a short distance, ride a bike instead of riding in a car.
 Turn off the lights when you leave a room.
 Take shorter showers.
 Close doors immediately behind you, so heat doesn’t escape.
|||||Plastic and other materials can be recycled and turned into something else. Recycling helps our planet. Do you recycle at home? At school?
 Read on to see how recycling works. 
Keep It Separated
Put each material into a different bin. This will help recycling centers sort it all out later on.
What Can I Recycle?

Paper can be recycled. So can metal, plastic, and glass. Give those a rinse first.
Here Comes the Truck 
A recycling truck will come to take your materials away. Now they’re headed to a recycling center. 
Sorted Out
The materials will be sorted. They might be compressed, or crushed. They’re on their way to becoming something new.
|||||A pumpkin is a type of squash. It can take four months for this fall fruit to grow. Take a look!
1. Plant the Seed
A giant pumpkin begins as a tiny seed. The seed goes into the soil. 
2. See It Sprout
Seeds need lots of sunlight and water to grow. A seed sprouts from the soil.
3. Ready to Bloom 
The sprouts grow vines. The vines have green leaves and yellow flowers.
4. 
Growing Green
Small green pumpkins grow from the vines. The fruits stay green for a month or more. The pumpkins are not yet ripe.
5. Orange Pumpkins
The green pumpkins keep growing. They take in water and sunlight. The fruits turn orange. Now they are ready to pick! 
How Big?
The Baby Boo is a tiny pumpkin. It can fit in your hand. The Big Moon is a gigantic pumpkin. Some can weigh 200 pounds!
|||||On January 13, the United States House of Representatives voted to impeach President Donald Trump for a second time.
What is impeachment?
If a U.S. president is suspected of committing “treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors,” the Constitution gives the House of Representatives the power to impeach the president, or charge him or her with a crime. 
Impeachment does not mean a president is removed from office. That’s up to the U.S. Senate.
Why did the House decide to impeach the president?
The House charged the president with “incitement of insurrection,” or encouraging a violent uprising against the government. 
On January 6, a large group of Trump’s supporters violently stormed the U.S. Capitol building, in Washington, D.C. At the time, members of Congress were meeting to officially confirm Joe Biden as the next president. 
At a rally earlier that day, Trump repeated false claims that the election had been stolen from him. Federal judges across the country have rejected those claims in court. There has been no evidence of widespread election fraud.
On January 12, the House asked Vice President Mike Pence to remove Trump from office. The 25th Amendment to the Constitution gives him that power if he has the support of two-thirds of Congress. “I do not believe that such a course of action is in the best interest of our nation,” Pence wrote.
The next day, all House Democrats and 10 Republicans voted to impeach the president. The final count was 232–197. 
What happens next? 
The case will be sent to the Senate for a trial. The Senate will vote on whether or not to convict the president of a crime. The trial is not expected to begin before January 19. Joe Biden will be sworn in as president on January 20. 
Why did lawmakers impeach Trump when he is about to leave office? 
Lawmakers say the president must be held accountable for his actions. “It is never too late to do the right thing,” says Steny Hoyer, a Democrat representing Maryland. 
Even once Trump is no longer president, the Senate can convict him. It can also bar him from ever holding federal office again. 
Hasn’t Trump been impeached before? 
Yes. Trump was impeached by the House in December 2019. He was charged with abusing his power and blocking Congress from investigating his actions. The Senate voted against removing him from office. 
Trump is the first president in U.S. history to be impeached twice. 
|||||Fall is harvest season. Crops are ready to be picked. Here are four fall crops. Which is your favorite? 
PUMPKINS grow in pumpkin patches. They turn orange when fully ripe. You can eat the seeds!

CORN grows in fields. It starts as a kernel. A corn’s seeds are in the kernels. Corn is ready to be picked when its silk turns brown.
PEARS grow on trees. They are picked before they are fully ripe. The fruit ripens off the tree. 
SWEET POTATOES grow underground. They are root vegetables. Farmers dig them up. 
|||||On April 19, NASA’s helicopter Ingenuity (shown in flight in a series of images) took off on Mars. This was the first powered flight by an aircraft on a planet other than Earth. The four-pound helicopter spent 39 seconds in the air and reached an altitude of 10 feet. It carried wing fabric from the 1903 Wright Flyer, the world’s first successful powered plane. Helicopters may one day carry packages and act as lookouts for astronauts on other planets and moons.
|||||On November 3, Americans will vote for president of the United States. They might vote for Donald Trump. He is president now. They might vote for Joe Biden. He hopes to become president.
Donald Trump 
President Donald Trump was born in New York City. Now he lives at the White House, in Washington, DC. 
Trump was a businessman. Before he became president, Trump constructed apartment buildings and hotels. He also hosted reality TV shows. 
Trump was elected president in 2016. He is running for reelection. U.S. presidents can serve for a total of eight years.
Trump likes to play golf. His favorite ice-cream flavor is cherry-vanilla. 
Joe Biden 
Joe Biden was born in Pennsylvania. He moved to Delaware at age 10. That is the state he calls home. 
Biden was a U.S. senator. He represented the state of Delaware. He served in the U.S. Senate for 36 years. 
Biden was vice president. That was from 2009 to 2017. He served with President Barack Obama.
Biden likes baseball and football. His favorite ice-cream flavor is chocolate chip.  
|||||Even in the age of computer keyboards, the ability to write neatly on paper is important. Kids are taught to print their letters, or write each one separately. That looks like what you’re reading now. But what about cursive writing? 
Many schools no longer teach it. Some people think it’s a dated form of writing and that the time is better spent on other subjects. Others say learning cursive is useful. In 2019, Texas reintroduced cursive as an essential skill. 
Should cursive be taught in schools? We asked TIME for Kids readers to share their thoughts. Here’s what four of them had to say.
Yes
Jayita Iyengar, 12
East Rutherford, New Jersey
Putting pen to paper has benefits that typing can’t replace. Research shows that learning to write by hand is a key to good spelling and composition skills. Plus, cursive writing could be considered an art form all on its own. It’s one way for students to develop the side of their brain that isn’t developed by basic reading and writing skills. 
No
Keith N. Kerman, 10
Pelham, New York 
Cursive shouldn’t be taught in schools anymore. It’s hard to do, and it’s a waste of time. The letters are so complicated and fancy that practically nobody’s able to do it accurately. And with all of this technology around nowadays, such as computers and phones, why should cursive still exist? Besides, who cares about cursive?
Yes
Justin Lining, 9
Bellevue, Washington
Cursive looks more glamorous than printing. Its letter formation has extraordinary curves and arches. Some parts are wide, while some parts are narrow. That will naturally appeal to people’s eyes and impress people. You can write in cursive faster because you connect the words. Your pen doesn’t pause. Cursive can let your thoughts flow.
No
Spriha Pradeep, 10
Fremont, California
Learning cursive can take away time from subjects we use every day. Typing is increasingly important. Cursive writing is slower, harder to read, and harder to learn. Due to technology, cursive has become insignificant. We hardly use handwriting. There’s no reason to teach students a skill that they won’t use and will most likely forget.
The Next Debate! Should people be rewarded for recycling? Email your opinion to tfkeditors@time.com by March 8. Your response might be featured in an upcoming issue.
|||||We love hearing from our readers! Here's what a few of you have to say this week.
I liked reading about Amanda Gorman (February 19). I think she and I could make the world a better place. Even though the world isn’t perfect, we can make it perfect. —Isaiah Destin, 10, in Charlotte, North Carolina
I read “PPE Pollution” (February 26). Masks are supposed to help protect us, not hurt wildlife. People should learn how to throw away trash. We need to keep the environment and each other safe! —Parker Navarrette, 12, in Corona, California 
I love your magazines! My class and I read them in school. I often read them again at home. Could one of your issues be about what to be when you grow up? I want to be a doctor, like my dad. —Lucretia Montague, 10, in Portland, Maine
What's on your mind? Write to us at tfkeditors@time.com.
|||||Animals have clever defenses. These defenses protect them from attackers. The attackers are called predators. Let’s find out how animals keep themselves safe from predators.
What’s That Smell?
Skunks have a stinky secret. They spray a bad odor. It keeps predators away.
Blending In
This is an Arctic hare. It turns white in the winter. It disappears against snow.
Sending a Warning
King snakes are not poisonous. But their bright color makes predators think they might be dangerous. This sends a message to predators: “Stay away!”
Stick with the Group!
Fish swim in big groups. The groups are called schools. Predators are confused by so many fish. So they swim away.
Did You Know?
Some animals have a hard outer shell. This armadillo has one. The armadillo rolls up into a ball. The shell protects it from predators.
|||||Eating a piece of fruit or a Popsicle is easy, yummy, and refreshing in the summer. But will it give you enough fuel for outdoor play? Here are some ideas from cookbook author and cooking instructor Katie Kimball to keep you energized.
1. Make a system. A healthy snack routine turns frowns upside down. Talk to your family about the best snacking schedule. Then you won’t be wondering when your next snack is, and you won’t drive your parents nuts asking!
2. Watch for added sugar. You want lots of good energy so you can play outside. Check the ingredients. If sugar or high-fructose corn syrup is listed first or second, that’s a sweet treat for a special occasion—not an everyday snack.
3. Think: “satisfying.” A snack should take the edge off your hunger, not make you full. Choose snacks that will satisfy you without ruining your appetite for the next meal.
4. Say yes to protein and fat. Fat and protein take a long time to digest, so they’ll give you energy for a whole afternoon. Try a cheese stick with grapes, or nut or seed butter with an apple or toast. 
5. Try new recipes. Learning to cook is a fun summer activity that increases your creativity and helps you gain life skills. Scroll down to discover my homemade ranch recipe. Kids in my cooking class call it “amazing.” I hope you’ll try it!
Mrs. Kimball's Ranch Dip
Ingredients
1 cup of sour cream, plain yogurt, or mayo 
½ teaspoon of dried parsley

¼ teaspoon of dried dill weed
¼ teaspoon of dried chives

½ teaspoon of onion powder
¼ teaspoon of garlic powder

¼ teaspoon of salt 
1 teaspoon to 1 tablespoon of red wine vinegar  
milk (optional)
 Instructions

Choose the base (sour cream, plain yogurt, or mayo) or mix more than one together.
Measure the base into a glass jar with a lid.
Measure all the dry ingredients into the jar. If you don’t have one of the dried herbs, just use more of another green herb. If you don’t have the onion or garlic, you can use more of the other.
Measure 1 teaspoon of vinegar into the jar.
Mix the ingredients together well, with a long spoon, until everything is uniform, or looks the same.
Taste the dip on a veggie stick. If you’d like it more tangy, add 1 or 2 more teaspoons of vinegar.
To make a pourable dressing, add milk a little at a time until you like the texture.
Store in the refrigerator and serve with raw veggies or salad.
Note: The flavor will get a little stronger after a few hours as the herbs soak into the sour cream or other base. You can always add a bit more herbs if you’d like more flavor.
Recipe from Kids Cook Real Food, where Katie Kimball and kids have taught more than 50,000 families how to safely cut veggies!
|||||Meet Elizabeth Ann! She’s the first cloned black-footed ferret. She’s also the first native endangered species cloned in the U.S. She was cloned using genes taken in 1988 from a black-footed ferret named Willa. Scientists hope the new animal will support the survival of her species. 
Elizabeth Ann was born in December 2020. Her arrival was announced February 18. She now lives at a conservation center in Colorado.
|||||Clinton Lexa loves video games. But playing them hasn’t always been easy. Lexa was born with a disability. It affects a person’s hands. Lexa usually does tasks and activities, such as playing video games, left-handed. “I taught myself,” Lexa told TIME for Kids. “There was no guide.”
Today, Lexa is a professional gamer and one of many people working to make video games more accessible. Developers are helping. They’re creating games with accessibility settings. And companies are designing controllers so people with disabilities can play.
Games for All
When not gaming, Lexa is an accessibility consultant. This means giving feedback to developers about making video games accessible. One project is an adventure game called Celeste. It has an “assist” mode that lets players change the game’s settings. Lexa helped update the mode’s introduction so more people would feel encouraged to use the mode. The result is challenging while being “more inclusive,” Lexa says.
Can I Play That? is a gaming website. It’s run by Courtney Craven. According to Craven, video games are changing. This is thanks to advocates like Lexa. Craven hopes that one day, developers will focus on accessibility. Then advocates won’t be needed. “We want to not have to exist,” Craven says.
Get Connected
Mark Barlet started the AbleGamers Charity. He says people with disabilities often feel alone. “Social isolation is a pandemic,” Barlet says. “Games are this shared experience.”
AbleGamers helps people with disabilities build gaming controllers that work for them. “Our mission is about combating social isolation,” Barlet says. Tools such as the Xbox Adaptive Controller, which AbleGamers helped design, make this possible. 
Craig Kaufman works for AbleGamers. “We basically had to make sure that the industry was . . . focused on including players with disabilities,” he says. “For the longest time, most people didn’t.”
|||||On October 11, the Los Angeles Lakers celebrated their victory as the 2020 NBA champions. The team defeated the Miami Heat 106–93 in game 6 of the NBA Finals. This is the 17th championship win for the Lakers, tying them with the Boston Celtics for the most in NBA history. LeBron James (pictured center) earned his fourth championship ring. He also claimed the NBA Finals Most Valuable Player award, making him the first player to have received the honor with three different teams. In past years, James led the Miami Heat and Cleveland Cavaliers to championships. That didn’t make this win with the Lakers any less sweet. “For me to be a part of such a historical franchise is an unbelievable feeling,” he said after the game.
|||||In addition to voting for president, voters chose state and local leaders. These included governors, mayors, and judges. Voters also chose members of the United States Congress. Congress is made up of the Senate and the House of Representatives. In total, 470 seats were up for grabs: 35 in the Senate and all 435 in the House. 
Currently, the Republican party holds control of the Senate. Democrats hoped to win enough races to change the balance of power. But at press time, the outcome was still unclear. Four Senate races had not yet been called. 
The Democratic party currently controls the House. At press time, votes were still being counted. But based on projections, experts agreed that Democrats would likely remain in control in the House. 
The 117th U.S. Congress begins on January 3, 2021. This chart shows what the balance of power will look like. It includes races that are still undecided.
This story appears in the November 13, 2020, print edition of TIME for Kids. It was published online on the afternoon of November 5. It has not been updated.
|||||The 2020 Nobel Peace Prize has been awarded to the World Food Programme (WFP). The news was announced on October 9. WFP is a United Nations agency. It provides emergency help to people who don’t have access to food. Its efforts have come at a crucial time. In 2020, the coronavirus pandemic led to a rise in the number of people facing starvation.
Berit Reiss-Andersen heads the Norwegian Nobel Committee, in Oslo, Norway. She says the committee wants to “turn the eyes of the world towards the millions of people who suffer from or face the threat of hunger.”
WFP works mainly in places affected by war or other conflicts. Last year, it provided food assistance to 97 million people in 88 countries. The group estimates that 690 million people globally are suffering from hunger.
David Beasley leads WFP. In a statement, he said there’s no hope for a peaceful planet if people are hungry. The Nobel award, he said, “is a reminder that food security, peace, and stability go together.”
WFP was established in 1961, and is based in Rome, Italy. It was chosen for the Nobel Prize from more than 300 nominees.
Stop and Think! Why is WFP’s Nobel Peace Prize newsworthy? After reading the article, are you more concerned about world hunger? Why or why not?
|||||A member of the Wiikwemkoong First Nation, Autumn Peltier, 16, lives in Canada. She advocates for clean water for Canada’s indigenous population. TFK Kid Reporter Pranav Mukhi spoke with her about the power of youth activism. 
1. What does water mean to First Nations people?
We believe that we are part of the land, and that we come from the land. We learn that we have a right to protect the land and protect the water.
2. What problems do indigenous communities in Canada face when it comes to water?
They often have little access to clean drinking water because of landfills, oil spills, or old mining sites. For more than 20 years, these communities have been told to boil their water [to make it safe].
3. I heard that you took your concerns to Justin Trudeau, the prime minister of Canada.
I met him in 2016. I told him, “I’m very unhappy with the choices you made and the broken promises to my people,” and I started crying. He said, “I will protect the water.”
4. What has the prime minister done since then?
He promised to solve all “boil water” advisories in Canada by March 2021. But there are still 54 advisories in First Nations communities, 44 in Ontario alone.
5. You represent 39 First Nations in Ontario as the chief water commissioner. What is your role?
I take ideas, questions, and concerns about water from the communities to our council leaders. And I have a say in decision-making.
6. Do you ever work with other water activists?

I know a lot of children my age, some older and some younger, who are doing the same work. It gives me hope and courage to know there are others out there.
7. How can we protect the world’s water?
There are industries that are trying to do things like dump toxic waste into the Great Lakes. We we can try to talk to them and raise our concerns. Clean drinking water is a basic human right.
8. What would you tell kids who want to speak out on behalf of others or the environment?

It is important to speak up for those who are too afraid to speak up. It can be as easy as writing to your local leaders. The message is so much more powerful when it comes from a young person. You can be the light in someone’s darkness.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
|||||Kitchen Cabinet Science Projects, a new book by scientist Michelle Dickinson (above), is full of hands-on science experiments. All of the experiments involve kitchen items. Dickinson shares one of them here. The experiment uses static electricity to make a strip of plastic hover in the air. “It feels like you have a real superpower,” she says. “And that feeling is really magical.” Read the instructions below so you can try it! 

Equipment & Ingredients
Lightweight plastic bag (often used in supermarkets for fruits and vegetables)
Balloon
Wool clothing or scarf 
Scissors
Instructions
Cut a narrow (about ½-inch) strip across the top of the closed bag and open to form a ring.
Blow up and tie the balloon.
Rub the wool item several times across both the surface of the balloon and the plastic strip to build up a static charge on both materials.
Throw the ring up in the air, away from your body, with enough force to prevent it from sticking to your hand.
Hold the balloon underneath the ring as it falls to the ground.
Watch as the plastic ring levitates above the balloon.
Explore Further
What happens if you don’t fully inflate the balloon in this experiment?
Why do you think the plastic strip wants to stick to your hands after it has been rubbed with the wool?
Can you successfully repeat the experiment, replacing the wool fabric with other natural materials—such as your hair or a piece of silk?

|||||People in the United States enjoy many types of food. Here are five dishes that are specialties in different parts of the country. Which would you like to try? 
Hangtown fry is a fancy egg dish. It has oysters and bacon. The dish was created in the 1800s, during the California Gold Rush.  

A prickly pear is a type of cactus. In New Mexico, people cook the cactus pads. In Spanish, the pads are called nopales. They are eaten in tacos. 
A krumkake is a crisp cookie. The cookies are rolled into cones. They can be filled with whipped cream. The krumkake was brought to North Dakota by Norwegian immigrants. 
Apple pie with cheese is a traditional dessert in Vermont. Dairies in this state make some of the best cheddar cheese in the world. 

Jambalaya is a favorite food in Louisiana. It is a spicy rice stew. Jambalaya is a mishmash of African, Spanish, and French flavors. It is usually made with meat and seafood.
 
|||||February is Black History Month. Here are three new books that honor the contributions of Black Americans. Which one would you like to read first?
Sprouting Wings
Sprouting Wings, by Louisa Jaggar and Shari Becker, tells the true story of James Herman Banning. He was a pilot who built his own plane. In 1932, Banning became the first Black pilot to fly across the United States. At the time, most pilots didn’t look like him. Jaggar told TIME for Kids that she hopes readers are inspired by his story. “Banning wasn’t afraid to have a really big dream,” she says. “For a crazy, really good dream to come true, [it takes] hard work, and you have to really want it.” —By Karena Phan 
Legacy 
Nikki Grimes grew up in Harlem, in New York City. She gave her first poetry reading at the Countee Cullen Library, which was named for a poet of the Harlem Renaissance. That was a time in the 1920s and 1930s when Black art flourished in Harlem. “I grew up with the poetry of that era,” Grimes told TFK. “But I noticed how few of the Harlem Renaissance poets I came across were women. So I set out to find them.” The result is her new book: Legacy. It features these women’s poems. Their words are also used to create new poems. “I was able to build a bridge between the past and the present,” she says. —By Constance Gibbs
VIP: Lewis Latimer
Lewis Latimer was a Black inventor born in 1848. He’s best known for improving the lightbulb. His ideas made it more affordable. VIP: Lewis Latimer, by Denise Lewis Patrick, is about Latimer’s life and work. The book also explores the challenges faced by Black inventors. “Black men and women have been creating and making history for centuries,” Patrick told TFK. “It gives me a sense of pride to learn of the many ways African Americans, in particular, have contributed to our country. American history is all our history.” —By Rebecca Katzman
|||||Movies, TV, and even Greek myths show dolphins as helpful, playful creatures. “The world loves a good dolphin story,” Blake Morton told TIME for Kids. He’s a scientist who studies animals. “I think one reason for that is we see a lot of ourselves mirrored in their behavior.” 
Morton used scientific methods to test his theory objectively. The result is a new report. It confirms that humans and dolphins share personality traits. The report was published in January, in the Journal of Comparative Psychology. 
The study involved 134 bottlenose dolphins at facilities in different countries. Each animal was rated with a “dolphin personality questionnaire.” The questionnaire consisted of more than 40 items. It included adjectives such as stubborn and playful. Staff members at the facilities gave every dolphin a score based on how well each item described the animal’s behavior. From these ratings, Morton and his team were able to spot personality traits common in dolphins.
The results show that dolphins and humans share certain traits. These include curiosity and sociability.
The Big Picture
Morton’s study and others like it teach us about different species. They also teach us about ourselves. “My kind of work stems from the spirit of trying to understand what made humans the way we are,” Morton says. “One way we can do that is to compare our behavior to the rest of the animal kingdom.”
Scientists are studying many animal species, from apes in Africa to reptiles in North America. They want to learn what makes humans different from other animals and what makes us the same.
It’s a puzzle, Morton says: “It takes thousands of careful papers being published before you start to see the puzzle coming together.” He compares science to pointillism. That’s an art style in which someone makes a painting with lots of tiny dots. “Take a step back and look at all those little single points of work,” Morton says. “You’ll see a big picture come into view.” 
|||||Joe Gardner, voiced by Jamie Foxx in the new movie Soul, teaches middle school band. He’s also a jazz lover and a gifted piano player. Joe’s seeking success and the approval of his mother (Phylicia Rashad). One day, he gets a gig playing with his idol, saxophonist Dorothea Williams (Angela Bassett). He thinks he’s about to fulfill his purpose in life. 
Before that can happen, Joe falls down a manhole. Eventually, he finds himself in the Great Before. That’s where new souls are prepared for life. It’s also where Joe meets Soul Number 22 (Tina Fey). He’s assigned to help her find her spark. That’s the passion that motivates her. But 22 isn’t excited about anything until she begins to experience life for herself.
SOUL-SEARCHING In the Great Before, Joe (right) eats pizza with 22.
By guiding 22, Joe gains an appreciation for the little things that make life worth living. For example, 22 gets her spark from ordinary activities, like watching the sky. 
The characters in Soul are very relatable. Everyone has a spark. The movie suggests that part of the beauty of life is discovering your spark and helping others find theirs.  
Joe’s piano pieces, played by musician Jon Batiste, are a highlight of the film. The music is impressive and full of feeling. It’s easy to believe these tunes take Joe on a musical journey to another world. By hearing them, we’re transported too.
I give Soul a rating of 9 out of 10. The movie is thought-provoking and inspiring. As the characters learn from one another, the viewer is invited to examine his or her own life. 
You’ll want to watch this film again and again with those who know you best, so you can discuss your spark and why it makes you you.
|||||On March 28, Mina Fedor, 12, led a rally with her friends Bee, Anna, Juno, and Mila. It took place in Berkeley, California. More than 1,200 people joined them. The girls led a crowd onto a bridge across a freeway. They posted signs that spelled “♥ Our Asian Community.” 
“We were grateful that so many people showed up,” Mina told TIME for Kids.  
YOUNG VOICES Kids stand up against anti-Asian prejudice, in Berkeley, California, on March 28.
Mina and her friends are troubled by recent attacks against Asian Americans. Violence and discrimination against Asian Americans have risen since the pandemic started, in early 2020. Elderly people are often targeted. 
Recent attacks against Asians are based on a false belief. This belief is that they are responsible for the coronavirus. The virus was first identified in China in late 2019. But no one person, group, or country is to blame for the coronavirus pandemic. 
ON THE MARCH Mina Fedor (center) and friends lead a rally near San Francisco Bay on March 28.
Russell Jeung cofounded Stop AAPI Hate. (AAPI stands for “Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.”) The group started collecting reports of anti-Asian hate incidents last year. “We were immediately flooded with hundreds of them,” Jeung recalls. Since then, the group has received more than 3,795 reports. 
A Troubling History
Discrimination against Asians in the U.S. isn’t new. It began in the 1850s. That’s when Chinese immigrants arrived. They were seen as a threat to white workers’ jobs. In 1882, Congress passed the Chinese Exclusion Act. It banned most Chinese immigration. Bans continued until the 1940s. They told Asians they were not wanted, Ellen Wu says. She’s a professor at Indiana University. “Sometimes, Americans told Asians they were unwelcome through violence,” Wu told TIME for Kids. “Ultimately, they expressed it in the law.”
Chinese people fought the Exclusion Act in court. Asian Americans still advocate for themselves today. “They have pushed back and stood up” for respectful treatment, Wu says.
But many people are unaware that Asians experience racism. They believe that Asians are more successful than other minority groups. In fact, Asians are unfairly held up as an example to other groups (see “The Model Minority Myth”).
All of Us Together
WE ARE ONE Compassion in Oakland volunteers pose for a photo while on neighborhood patrol in February.
Jessica Owyoung is a cofounder of Compassion in Oakland,  in California. The group pairs Asian-American elders with volunteers. The volunteers walk with them around town. “Elders feel alone and scared,” Owyoung says. The way to make them feel safer, she says, “is to physically be there for them.”
HELPING HAND A volunteer for Compassion in Oakland meets with an Asian-American elder in February.
President Joe Biden has announced anti-racism actions. These are to benefit Asian Americans. “Hate can have no safe harbor in America,” he says.
For Mina and her friends, showing you care can go a long way. “It’s important to be an ally,” her friend Mila says. “We’re all doing our part to help the cause.”	
The Model Minority Myth
The model minority myth is a widespread idea that Asians work harder and value education more than other minority groups do. This idea is harmful. It leads to the false belief that Asians do not face racism and discrimination.
The myth also creates false beliefs about other groups. “Working hard and valuing education and family—these are values common to all communities,” Wu says.
|||||The narrator of the Diary of a Wimpy Kid books is goofball Greg Heffley. But the new book in the series has a different point of view. In Diary of an Awesome Friendly Kid, Rowley Jefferson tells the story. He is Greg’s best friend. Rowley sets out to write about Greg. But the book turns out to be mainly about himself. 
Author JEFF KINNEY says Rowley is his favorite character. “There’s something very joyful and pure about Rowley,” Kinney told TFK. “Rowley is the opposite of Greg in just about every way.”
The book is in stores now. 
|||||There are eight species of bears. They are different colors and sizes. They live in different parts of the world. Read the chart to learn about three bear species. Which is your favorite?
FOOD — Bamboo shoots and leaves

SIZE — Up to six feet tall
home.
HOME  — Bamboo forests in the mountains of China
FACT — Pandas use their large teeth and strong jaws to chomp on bamboo.

FOOD — Seals and small whales 
SIZE — Up to eight feet tall

HOME — Sea ice and coastal land in the Arctic

FACT — Polar bears have a thick layer of fur and blubber. This helps them keep warm in their cold habitat. 
FOOD — Roots, berries, nuts, and fruit
SIZE — Up to nine feet tall

HOME — Forests and mountains of North America, Europe, and Asia

FACT — Brown bears come in many colors. Some are nearly black. Others are blond. 

|||||Looking for something new to read? TIME for Kids has recommendations. Our editors selected some of the most exciting books of 2020. Then we handed them off to our team of TFK Kid Reporters to review. Here, TFK Kid Reporter Rory Hu shares her thoughts on When Life Gives You Mangos, by Kereen Getten. 
Clara Dee-Henson used to be a carefree girl living in a village called Sycamore on a tropical island. The village is like one big family, and she knows the place inside out. Clara has always spent her summer eating ripe mangos, surfing the waves, and hanging out with her best friend, Gaynah. 
Then Clara begins to suffer from memory loss. She’s unable to remember what happened last summer. Her world quickly changes, and she doesn’t understand why. Gaynah has started acting mean to her. Clara is now fearful of the ocean, which she once loved. And she discovers that the village is not as peaceful as it looks. In search of answers, she goes on a journey to understand her world and herself. 
When Life Gives You Mangos is a moving tale about friendship, family, and forgiveness. It’s a story that will make you smile while putting tears in your eyes. I recommend you read it at least twice, because you’ll have a completely different perspective once you know the ending.
|||||
Sesame Street’s first show was in 1969. This year, Sesame Street celebrates its 50th birthday. Follow the timeline below. It tells you about the history of the popular children’s program. 

1969
Sesame Street airs its first episode. In it, a new kid moves to the neighborhood. She meets her neighbors. Can you name at least one of them?

1972
Sesame Street begins airing a show in Mexico. The characters speak Spanish. Today, Sesame Street can be seen in 150 countries. The Muppets speak 70 languages! 

1984
This furry friend becomes a star. Elmo started as a background character. Then he got a name and a voice.

2017
Work begins on a new version of Sesame Street. It is for Syrian refugees.  
2019
Sesame Street is 50! To celebrate, New York City renames part of 63rd Street. It is now called Sesame Street. 

|||||Scientists are in a hurry to develop a coronavirus vaccine. Vaccines protect people from disease. 
A vaccine would save lives. It would help end the coronavirus pandemic. 
A vaccine works by building our immunity to a virus. “It teaches the body to recognize the virus,” Dr. Rick Malley told TIME for Kids. He works at a hospital. It is in Boston, Massachusetts. “The next time the body sees the bug, it fights it off without ever getting sick.”

A Need for Speed  

It can take 10 years to develop a vaccine. Scientists have to do research. They have to make sure the vaccine is safe. First it will be tested on animals or cells. Then it can be tested on people. 
When will there be a coronavirus vaccine in the United States? Some say one could be ready by the end of this year. People are working fast to make that happen. But there won’t be enough for everyone at first. It will take time to make that much. The first doses will probably go to health-care workers and elderly people. 
|||||Dance is an important part of South Korean culture. Here are three traditional dances.
BuchaeChum is a fan dance. Dancers hold big fans with flowers on them. They wave and turn the fans. They wear colorful clothing called hanbok. 
Nongak is a type of Korean music and dance. Performers spin in circles. They play drums and use hand gongs. This dance was originally done by farmers. They did it for fun after working hard.
Ohgomu is a drum dance. Each performer plays five drums. Here, one drum hangs behind. Two are on each side. Usually, the drummers are women. They wear costumes. They dance between the drums. 
|||||Many of the Southeast Iowa Union’s older readers live in rural areas and don’t get their news online. So when they need to know how the coronavirus is affecting their community, they rely on the newspaper.
“People appreciated the reporting we did,” says Ashley Duong, a former reporter for the paper. “Rural America is kind of forgotten, and . . . national publications, they aren’t covering it.”
Yet local news outlets are in trouble. Many are downsizing or closing. They can’t compete with national outlets in attracting advertisers. Some are bought by national media companies and stop covering local stories. This is a problem for democracy.
According to a report by PEN America, some 1,800 local newspapers have closed since 2004. Many communities do not have a trusted source for health or education news. And there is little or no reporting about local government. Without that information, people are often less likely to vote in local elections.
Many Americans still trust local news outlets over national ones. The Pew Research Center found that 46% of adults relied heavily on local coverage early in the pandemic.
It’s easy to see why. Ren Larson is a reporter for the Texas Tribune and ProPublica. “The media holds our elected officials and community leaders accountable,” she says.
Making a Difference
Larson’s reporting has helped readers take action. In 2019, she worked on a story for the Arizona Republic about towns vulnerable to wildfire. It drew on data from about 5,000 communities in the western United States. “People used that data to present to their local council about the hazards [in their area],” Larson says. Local reporting is especially important in a pandemic. People need information about safety measures and vaccines.
Annika Hom writes about inequality for Mission Local, in San Francisco, California. The news site covers the city’s Mission District. Its reporters questioned officials about how they were handling the neighborhood’s struggle with COVID-19. “Local journalism helps you get closer to the truth,” Hom says.
Larson agrees. “Local newsrooms have their finger on the pulse of what’s happening in a community,” she says. “They are essential to maintaining a democracy.”
|||||There are eight planets in our solar system. They travel in a path around the sun. Here is what you need to know about them.
Mercury is the smallest planet in our solar system. It is the closest planet to the sun. It is hot during the day. It is freezing cold at night.
Venus is very bright. It can sometimes be seen from Earth! Venus is the hottest planet. It is surrounded by poisonous gas.
Earth is our home. It is the third planet from the sun. It is the only one known to support life. Most of Earth is covered by water.
Mars is known as the Red Planet. Why? Iron in its soil gives Mars a reddish color. Scientists are studying Mars for signs of life.
Jupiter is the largest planet in our solar system. It is made of gas. It has an area called the Great Red Spot. The spot is a huge storm.
Saturn is surrounded by bigger rings than any other planet. They are made of ice, dust, and rock. It also has more than 60 known moons.
Uranus is very cold. It is the only planet that spins on its side. It was the first planet to be discovered using a
telescope.
Neptune is the farthest planet from the sun. Like Uranus, it is called an ice giant. The planet has strong winds and big storms.
Did You Know?
Pluto is a dwarf planet. It looks and acts like most planets. But it is smaller. Scientists used to consider it a planet. But that changed in 2006.
|||||A weather map shows information about the weather. Meteorologists use weather maps to see patterns. The maps help them predict the weather. 

A weather map can show temperature, wind speed, wind direction, and more. It shows where storms are and where they’re going. The maps use satellite pictures from space and information from the ground.
|||||Kitchen Cabinet Science Projects, a new book by scientist Michelle Dickinson (above), is full of hands-on experiments that involve kitchen items. Dickinson shares one of them here. The experiment uses static electricity to make a strip of plastic hover in the air.
“It feels like you have a real superpower,” she says. “And that feeling is really magical.” Read the instructions below so you can try it!
Equipment & Ingredients
Lightweight plastic bag (often used in supermarkets for fruits and vegetables)
Balloon
Wool clothing or scarf 
Scissors
Instructions
Cut a narrow (about ½-inch) strip across the top of the closed bag and open to form a ring.
Blow up and tie the balloon.
Rub the wool item several times across both the surface of the balloon and the plastic strip to build up a static charge on both materials.
Throw the ring up in the air, away from your body, with enough force to prevent it from sticking to your hand.
Hold the balloon underneath the ring as it falls to the ground.
Watch as the plastic ring levitates above the balloon.
Explore Further
What happens if you don’t fully inflate the balloon in this experiment?
Why do you think the plastic strip wants to stick to your hands after it has been rubbed with the wool?
Can you successfully repeat the experiment, replacing the wool fabric with other natural materials—such as your hair or a piece of silk?
|||||Banners and streamers are hung. Games are set up. Soon, it will be time to pump up the music and welcome the guests. Kids will rush in, ready to celebrate. 
Guests enter a Birthday Party Project celebration through a “party tunnel.”

Every month, birthday parties like this take place across the country. They are hosted by an organization called the Birthday Party Project. The group throws parties for kids who do not have a permanent home. Many of the parties take place in a homeless shelter. For some kids, it is the first birthday party they have had.

The Birthday Party Project is on a mission. The group wants to make every kid feel special. “Everybody deserves to feel celebrated,” Paige Chenault told TIME for Kids. She started the Birthday Party Project in 2012. The group’s first celebration was at a homeless shelter in Texas. 
Volunteers from the Birthday Party Project hang a banner in a party room.
Today, the Birthday Party Project hosts about 50 monthly parties in cities around the country. Nearly 10,000 kids have celebrated their birthday at these events. 
Make a wish! Kids who are celebrating their birthday get a sweet treat with a candle on top.

Dipson, 8, is one of those kids. He lives in a temporary housing community in Minnesota. At a party in March, he and other kids played ring toss and ate cupcakes. They also opened presents. “It was very fun,” he says. 
Every birthday party has a theme. Can you guess what the theme of this party is?
Jamie Gates works in Dipson’s community. She says the Birthday Party Project has held parties there for years. Kids always look forward to them. “Parents come and party too,” she says. “It brings the whole place together.”
Everyone is welcome at the party. It is a time for families and neighbors to celebrate together.
There are many ways you can help other kids feel celebrated. Volunteer with an adult for a group like the Birthday Party Project. Raise money by hosting bake sales and other events. Donate gifts to a local homeless shelter. Make birthday cards for kids living in difficult situations. Everyone can pitch in!
|||||As seasons change, so do trees. They change as the weather does. Do you notice any of these changes in the trees near your home? 
Spring
 
The weather warms. A tree awakens and grows buds. The buds will become leaves.
Summer
A tree is covered in green leaves. Some trees grow fruit, too.
Fall  
The weather cools. The leaves change color. Then they start to fall.
Winter
 A tree has shed its leaves. Now it rests and saves energy. It will grow buds again in the spring.
|||||Have you ever said “Whoa!” as you watched a basketball player sink a basket? If so, you have felt awe. It’s a strong feeling of wonder or amazement.
Virginia Sturm is a psychologist and a professor at the University of California, 
San Francisco. “Awe is a positive emotion,” she told TIME for Kids. “When we feel it, we feel smaller in relation to the world around us.” Often, people feel awe in nature.
Sturm led a study. The goal was to see if it’s possible for people to feel more awe by taking “awe walks.”

The study focused on two groups of adults. Both groups were asked to walk outdoors for 15 minutes once a week. They were told to pay attention to their surroundings and take a few selfies.
Sturm says one group got extra instructions. People were asked “to try to tap into a childlike sense of wonder . . . and to try to see the world with fresh eyes.”
Both groups answered daily questions. They were asked about their mood. And they sent in their selfies. This went on for eight weeks. Researchers found that people in the “awe walk” group felt happier than those in the other group. The faces in their pictures were small compared to their surroundings. The findings were published last fall in the journal Emotion.
Awe Walks for Kids
Sturm says awe walks can be good for kids. And they’re easy to do. “You don’t have to go somewhere new or take a big trip,” she says. “It could be really quite simple, like noticing new flowers in your backyard or a bird nest on your street.”
Maryam Abdullah is a psychologist. She works at the Greater Good Science Center, in Berkeley, California. She says awe walks can be helpful during the pandemic, when people might be feeling disconnected from others. 

“Awe is one of those emotions that helps us transcend ourselves [and] understand our connection to something much bigger,” Abdullah says. “That’s a healthy feeling for young people to experience.”
|||||
Meet the Mars 2020 Rover. It is a robotic scientist. NASA will send it to Mars in 2020. Its job is to look for clues about life on the Red Planet.
The rover has one arm. That arm is seven feet long. Tools are attached to it. They are used to study rocks and soil on Mars.

One of the rover’s tools is a drill. It scrapes and cuts into rocks. It does this to collect samples. Then the rover places the samples inside of tubes.
Could humans live on Mars? The rover will help us find out. NASA hopes to send astronauts to Mars within the next 20 years.
|||||Oceans are noisier than ever, scientists say. That’s because of sound pollution. The pollution is caused by humans. And it’s harming ocean life. 
Researchers looked at thousands of studies of ocean sound. They found that noise pollution has increased over time. The noise makes ocean animals behave differently. This research was published in February, in the journal Science. 
Sea animals use the natural sounds of the ocean to find their way around. They also use sound to communicate. “Sound travels very far underwater,” Francis Juanes says. He’s one of the article’s authors. “For fish, sound is probably a better way to sense their environment than light.” 
Noise pollution drowns out natural sounds. It comes from activities like shipping or construction. Animals flee noisy areas. As a result, their habitats shrink. 
But scientists say there’s a solution. Things like wind-powered ships and quieter propellers would lower the volume. And governments could pass laws limiting noise. 
|||||Welcome to Egypt. It is a country in North Africa. Read on to learn what life in Egypt was like more than 2,000 years ago. 
Pharaohs
Kings and queens ruled ancient Egypt. They were called pharaohs. They made laws and led armies. This mask was made to look like King Tutankhamen. 
Mummies
The Egyptians believed in a life after death. A dead body was dried and wrapped in fabric. That is called a mummy. The mummy below was buried in a painted case. 
Hieroglyphs
The Egyptians wrote in pictures. The pictures are called hieroglyphs. They were often carved in stone. Hieroglyphs tell stories. They teach us about people and events in Egypt’s history.
Pyramids
Pharaohs ordered the building of pyramids. The monuments are made of stone. These are the Pyramids of Giza. The biggest (center) is 481 feet tall. Inside is the tomb of King Khufu.
Did You Know?
The Nile passes through Egypt. It is the longest river in the world. Ancient Egyptians sailed up and down the Nile. That is how they traded goods with other countries.
|||||On January 4, Belgian biker Walter Roelants speeds across sand dunes in Saudi Arabia. He’s participating in the 43rd running of the Dakar Rally. It’s a world-famous off-road racing competition. Its divisions include cars, motorbikes, lightweight vehicles, and trucks. The 2021 race began on January 3. It lasts 12 days and covers more than 3,000 miles. More than 500 riders and drivers are taking part.
|||||Jon Klassen loves picture books. These are some of his favorites.
Fortunately
Fortunately follows Ned’s journey to a party. Unfortunately, it is an adventure filled with mishaps. “It is a really funny book,” Klassen says. 
Sylvester and the Magic Pebble
Sylvester finds a wishing pebble. But his wish creates problems. “It is amazing, all that happens,” Klassen says. 
Sam and the Firefly
This was Klassen’s first favorite book. He says the pictures make readers feel like they are in another world. “I love the way that feels,” he says. 
|||||Firefighters have a lot of gear. They need it to stay safe and do their job well. Let’s take a look at a firefighter’s tools. 
A firefighter wears a helmet. It protects his or her head from falling objects.
tomacco/getty images (5)
 
The mask is attached to an air tank. The tank supplies a firefighter with clean air to breathe.
It is hard to breathe when the air is smoky. A firefighter uses an air mask.
A firefighter carries an ax. It is used to break down doors to get to the fire. 
Firefighters wear special boots. They keep a firefighter’s feet safe and dry.

|||||Like most people, author and illustrator Mike Lowery has spent a lot of time at home in the past year. To keep boredom at bay, he started dreaming up fun things to do with his wife and two kids. “Sometimes, it was craft stuff; sometimes, it was activities,” he told TIME for Kids. “Anything we could do at the house to have a good time.” 
Now, Lowery has created a book containing 100 of his favorites: The Ultimate At-Home Activity Guide. He’d like it to entertain kids long after the pandemic. “Hopefully, this period will be wrapping up sooner or later,” he says. “And kids will just be doing these things on a Saturday morning when they don’t feel like going anywhere.” On this page, Lowery shares an activity with TFK readers. 

|||||As a child, Jennifer Keelan-Chaffins set aside her wheelchair and climbed the steps of the United States Capitol on her knees. Her actions sent a message: Pass the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Lawmakers listened. Today, the ADA makes public spaces accessible to people with disabilities. All the Way to the Top is her story.

“Jennifer had the power to inspire and to change the world,” author Annette Bay Pimentel (pictured) told TFK. Kids today do too. 
|||||Clouds come in many forms. They are named after their shape and how high in the sky they are. Get the scoop on four types of clouds. 
Thin and Feathery
When it’s nice out, you might see cirrus clouds. They are high in the sky. Some people say they look like hair.
Thick and Puffy
Cumulonimbus clouds hold rain. They are closer to the ground. 
Cotton Balls
warren bolster—getty images
Cumulus clouds are seen on sunny days. They are puffy. They are fairly low in the sky. 
Long Layers
vlad romensky—getty images

On foggy, rainy days, flat layers of stratus clouds cover the sky. They often cause drizzling rain
|||||Take deep belly breaths. Breathe in through your nose. Exhale through your mouth. Focus on your breath.
Do something kind for others.
 Helping other people will make you feel good. That’s because you are making a change in the world. Plus, you’ll gain confidence.
Talk with a friend. Being with people we love makes us feel safe. You might talk with an old friend. You could also make a new one. Either way, being in the person’s company will make you feel happier.
Express gratitude. What are you thankful for? Make a list. Who are the special people in your life? Let them know how you feel about them. This will make them feel good, too.
Exercise, eat well, and get good sleep. Taking care of your body is key to feeling good. It promotes mental health.
|||||This Earth Day, why not make a compost bin? Put some soil in a plastic bin or tub. Add leaves and twigs. Moisten with water. Now you can add scraps of fruits and vegetables. You can also add coffee grounds and old tea bags. 
How does composting work? Tiny creatures found in soil will feast on the food scraps. They will break them down. The soil will become rich with nutrients. It can be used to grow plants. 
Look at the illustration below. It shows which items should be composted and which should not. Use it to help you with your compost project. 
|||||Inventions have the power to help people. An invention can change how we live, work, and play. Each year, TIME magazine picks the year’s best inventions. Here, TFK tells you about five of them. 
A Safer Ride
Biking in the dark is dangerous. But this LUMOS helmet has lights. They help cars see bikers at night. That helps bikers stay safe. 
Sweet Sandals
Making shoes can be harmful to the planet. But these flip-flops are made from a new material. It is called SWEETFOAM. It is made from the sugarcane plant. 
In Control 
With NINTENDO LABO, gamers can build their own controllers out of cardboard. The controllers can be used to play mini-games on the Nintendo Switch.
Ready to Fly 
The GRAVITY JET SUIT lets people fly. The suit has five mini jet engines. They can push a person into the air. Zoom! 
Better Wheels
Wheelchairs help people get around. The WHILL MODEL CI is a new type of wheelchair. It can climb over things and move around in tight spaces. It can be taken apart in minutes. 
|||||Time flies! The first issue of TIME for Kids was published in September 1995. That means TFK is turning 25. To honor our 25th anniversary, we’re pulling TFK stories from the archives and highlighting them in this space. Each archival issue relates to something in the news today. We hope these stories provide background for the things you’ll read about.
This week, we’re exploring how seaweed can combat climate change. TFK first wrote about the climate crisis in one of its earliest issues, dated September 29, 1995. Readers learned that the heat-trapping gases carbon dioxide and methane were causing the Earth to warm. They also learned about the harmful effects of climate change, such as rising sea levels and unpredictable weather.
Twenty-five years later, climate change is still in the headlines. As more people have become aware of the problem, they’ve spoken out about the urgent need for action. Activists have pressed leaders for climate-friendly policies. And young people around the world are taking charge in the fight to protect the planet. 

|||||African elephants are becoming more endangered, according to a March 25 report by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The group looks at animal populations to determine how likely they are to become extinct. 
There are two species of African elephant. Savanna elephants roam open grasslands. Forest elephants live in wooded areas. Both are in trouble. 
Over the past 50 years, the savanna elephant population has fallen by 60%. The IUCN lists the animal as endangered. The forest elephant population has declined by more than 86% over 31 years. The forest elephant is now listed as critically endangered. Today, Africa has about 415,000 elephants. 
The last time the IUCN looked at African elephants was in 2008. Back then, both species of elephant were grouped in one category and listed as vulnerable. That’s the category before endangered. 
Experts say the main threats to elephants are poaching and habitat loss. IUCN director general Bruno Oberle hopes the report inspires governments and individuals to take action. “Africa’s elephants play key roles in ecosystems, economies, and in our collective imagination all over the world,” he says. 
Stop and Think! What data does the author use in this article? How does the data help you understand the problem the article describes?
|||||TIME for Kids reports on the results of the 2020 presidential election.
Former vice president Joe Biden has won the 2020 presidential election. He will become the 46th president of the United States. His running mate, Kamala Harris, will become vice president. The two will be sworn in on Inauguration Day. That’s January 20, 2021.
The Associated Press announced Biden’s win on November 7, four days after Election Day. Biden was named the projected winner after he took the state of Pennsylvania. That pushed his total number of electoral college votes past 270. To win the presidency, a candidate needs at least 270 out of 538 electoral votes. 
Later that day, Biden also won the state of Nevada. That took his total number of electoral votes to 290. After winning Alaska on November 11, President Donald Trump had 217 electoral votes. At press time, a winner hadn’t been announced in Georgia and North Carolina. Officials are still counting ballots, but these states don’t have enough electoral votes to change the outcome of the race.
Biden has won the popular vote, too. As of November 12, Trump had about 72 million votes while Biden had about 77 million.
“America, I’m honored that you have chosen me to lead our great country,” Biden wrote on Twitter on November 7. “The work ahead of us will be hard, but I promise you this: I will be a President for all Americans—whether you voted for me or not. I will keep the faith that you have placed in me.”
At press time, Trump had not conceded the election. He has said he will challenge the results in court. Throughout the election, Trump expressed doubt about the country’s mail-in voting system. But there has been no evidence of a widespread problem.
Americans voted in record numbers. The percentage of eligible voters who cast a ballot was the highest it has been since 1900. In some states, the candidates’ vote tallies were not far apart. Recounts are expected. Georgia’s secretary of state has already announced that the state will recount its ballots. And the Trump campaign has said it will request another count in Wisconsin. Electoral college rules say states should complete recounts by December 8.
Stop and Think! What questions do you have after reading this article? What information would you expect a future article on this subject to include?
This story appears in the November 20, 2020, print edition of TIME for Kids. It was published online on the afternoon of November 12. It has not been updated.
|||||People are building a new kind of city. This type of city will not be on land. It will float on the ocean. 
The first floating city will be in French Polynesia. That is in the South Pacific Ocean. Construction will begin soon. The builders hope to finish it by 2020. To begin with, the first floating city will be the size of a soccer field. But it will grow. It will have homes and parks. There will also be schools, shops, and restaurants. 
Why build floating cities? Floating cities are safe from flooding. As the sea rises, so will the cities. They can be moved to a new place. And they will let more people live near the ocean.
|||||Zoë Trisha Prinsloo sees lots of plastic waste. The teenager hosts beach cleanups in Cape Town, South Africa. Prinsloo has picked up plastic bottles, straws, and more. Lately, she has noticed an increase in one type of trash. It’s from PPE (personal protective equipment). Her group, Save a Fishie!, saw “eight different kinds of gloves” during a cleanup in 2020. “I find masks more and more regularly, too,” she told TIME for Kids.
People everywhere are wearing PPE. It helps protect against COVID-19. But when PPE is not disposed of properly, it pollutes the environment and endangers wildlife. Environmentalists and others are concerned about this growing problem.
Plastic Problem
At least 8 million tons of plastic enter oceans each year. That’s according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature. This waste now includes more PPE. Experts say that up to 129 billion face masks and 65 billion gloves are used each month. 
In September 2020, the Ocean Conservancy held its yearly International Coastal Cleanup. Participants found tens of thousands of PPE items. George Leonard is the group’s chief scientist. “PPE waste is a significant threat to oceans and marine life,” he told CNN.
PPE waste threatens other wildlife too. Sue Schwar manages South Essex Wildlife Hospital. It’s in the United Kingdom. Recently, her team cared for a seagull. “The loops of a face mask were bound around its legs,” Schwar says. The staff untangled the bird. It healed and was set free.
ANIMALS AT RISK Seagulls pick up a discarded face mask in Dover, England, in August 2020.
Do Your Part
PPE will be common until the pandemic ends. But there are steps you can take to reduce its environmental impact. 
Wear clean reusable masks. If you’re using a disposable one, Schwar suggests snipping the straps before throwing it out. This will prevent wildlife from getting tangled in them. Toss the mask in a garbage can with a secure lid. 
With adult permission, you can join cleanup events like Prinsloo’s. “My main goal is to constantly remove anything and everything I can off our beaches,” she says.
|||||A train shoots from a tunnel and zips over a bridge. It passes in a blur over the farmland below. Blink, and you could miss it.
China has been using maglev trains to whisk people from the city of Shanghai to its airport.
Japan is testing its new maglev bullet train. It’s the fastest train in the world. It reaches speeds of 375 miles per hour. That’s more than twice the top speed of the Acela Express, the fastest train in the United States. 
Maglev is short for “magnetic levitation.” This train does not just run on wheels. It also floats. Powerful magnets in the train and rails lift the train four inches into the air. They also propel it. And since the train doesn’t touch the rails, there’s no friction. That means super speeds.
How does maglev work? Magnets in the train and the rail repel one another. This lifts the train and moves it forward.
Japan hopes to have the maglev in use by 2027. Traveling won’t be the same. The country’s capital, Tokyo, is 218 miles from the city of Nagoya. The trip takes nearly five hours by car. The maglev will make it in 40 minutes.
China is testing out a new high-speed maglev train. Here, a guest takes a photo inside.
Japan is not the first country to build a magnetic train. China has used one for years. But that one is slower. It goes between Shanghai and its airport at a top speed of 268 miles per hour.

European engineers are working on maglev technology. This train is making a test run in Germany.

Will magnetic trains make it to the U.S.? There’s a plan to build a maglev line between Baltimore, Maryland, and Washington, D.C. The project would cost billions of dollars. Some say the money should be used to build highways instead.
But supporters of maglev point to its benefits. It’s quiet. It needs little maintenance. And it will not derail.
 The future of train travel is fast approaching. Are you on board?
Life has sped up. People want to travel more quickly. High-speed trains make that possible. The most famous passenger-carrying maglev train is in China. Most high-speed trains rely on wheels. Check out these speeds. 
|||||The world is full of incredible elevators. Here are a few of TFK’s favorites. Would you like to ride in any of these?
The world’s fastest elevator is in Shanghai Tower, in China. This elevator can go 67 feet per second. That’s almost as quick as the top speed of a cheetah, the world’s fastest land animal. Whoosh! 


The Burj Khalifa is the world’s tallest building. It’s in Dubai. Tall buildings need fast elevators. The Burj Khalifa’s elevators are the third-fastest in the world. They go from the ground to the roof in a minute and 22 seconds.

Introducing the world’s tallest outdoor elevator. The Bailong elevator is on the side of a cliff, in China. It’s in a national park. The elevator rises 1,070 feet into the air. Would you have the courage to ride in it?

This first-ever sideways elevator is being tested in Germany. It’s propelled by powerful magnets. It can travel up and down, too! Some people say it’s the elevator of the future. 

|||||Today, people from around the world visit the ruins of the Colosseum. The drawing on the right shows the stadium as it looked long ago.
Rome is an ancient city in Italy. For more than 500 years, it was the center of a great empire. The city’s wealth and power can be seen in monuments that are still standing.
One of the grandest is the Colosseum. This stadium was built about 2,000 years ago. It held 50,000 people. Romans went there to watch battles between trained fighters, called gladiators. These warriors wore armor and fought with swords. They were heroes to their fans.
Beneath the arena were passages. Wild animals were kept there. Sometimes, a lion, wolf, or bear was brought into the arena. Could a gladiator survive a fight with the ferocious beast? The crowd would cheer as their hero fought a bloody battle.
The Stadio Olimpico is where Romans go to watch the city’s soccer teams compete. The stadium has also hosted World Cup games and the Olympics.
Sports are still important to Romans. But today, their favorite game is soccer. In Rome, soccer is known as football. The game is played in the Stadio Olimpico. The arena can hold 74,000 people.
Rome has two teams. They are fierce rivals. Players charge up and down the field. They shoot for a goal. There’s action off the field, too. Fans wave flags and sing songs. When a goal is scored, the stadium erupts in cheers.
Soccer games take place on Sundays. But for Romans, soccer is a part of everyday life. All week long, fans talk and argue about soccer. They are loyal to their teams. To them, soccer players are heroes.
|||||The Not-Too-Late Show with Elmo is a new talk show. It is hosted by the popular Sesame Street character. In each episode, Elmo gets ready for bed. He does this while chatting with special guests.
The show premiered this week. It can be seen on the new streaming service HBO Max.
TFK caught up with Elmo. Here’s what he had to say about this fun new show.
Q: Why did you want to host a talk show before bedtime?
A: Elmo loves making people laugh and learning about his friends and putting on a show, so Elmo thought hosting his own talk show would be a lot of fun! We tell jokes and sing songs and play games with celebrity guests, all before Elmo’s bedtime. Elmo goes to bed at 7:30. That’s why it’s Not-Too-Late. 
Q: Who are some guests who will appear?
A: So many amazing people visited The Not-Too-Late Show: Lil Nas X and Ciara and Blake Lively and the Jonas Brothers! Nick and Kevin and Joe even helped Elmo’s daddy with the dishes after the show! Oh—and Batman!
Q: What is your favorite game to play?
A: Definitely the tricycle race! No, no. Freeze Dance. Or maybe Beach Ball Ballyhoo? We play too many fun games on the show. Elmo can’t pick just one!
Q: What’s your favorite part of the show? 
A: Elmo’s favorite thing about The Not-Too-Late Show is that Elmo gets to work with all of Elmo’s friends. Cookie Monster is Elmo’s cohost, and Rosita is the stage manager, and Abby Cadabby is the head writer. Elmo even has a house band: Mama Bear and the Monsters! Everybody helps out. Elmo also likes wearing his snazzy suit.
Q: Why will kids love The Not-Too-Late Show?
A: Elmo had a lot of fun making it, so Elmo hopes everybody will have fun watching it!
Q: What do you do when you miss playing with your friends?
A: We’re learning new ways to play together. When Elmo misses Cookie Monster or Abby or any of Elmo’s friends, we have a virtual playdate. Elmo just learned that word: vir-tu-al! Elmo’s mommy and daddy set up a camera so Elmo can see everybody and play games on video calls. Elmo’s favorites are Freeze Dance and Elmo Says. That’s like Simon Says—but with Elmo.
|||||Boots is a company with stores throughout the United Kingdom. It sells health and beauty products. In September 2020, Boots launched a program that rewards customers for recycling empty product packaging. Participants get points they can use toward store purchases. In the program’s first few months, Boots recycled more than a ton of plastic. 
Other companies have similar programs. Should cities, states, and countries consider giving rewards for recycling too? Some say people shouldn’t need a reward to keep the planet clean. Others say any initiative that encourages people to recycle is helpful. We asked TIME for Kids readers to weigh in. Many wrote to us to share their opinions. Here’s what four of them had to say.
Conor Maples, 11
Wheaton, Illinois
People should be rewarded for recycling. San Francisco, California, has a program that rewards recycling. San Francisco has one of the highest recycling rates in the United States. Meanwhile, Chicago, Illinois, doesn’t enforce recycling laws enough, and it has one of the lowest recycling rates in the country. By rewarding recycling, many cities would be cleaner.  
Ruhi Patel, 9
Trumbull, Connecticut
Even though people don’t recycle enough, those who do know that the reward is having a cleaner environment for future generations. What can be more rewarding than this? Rewards will only encourage people to buy more disposable items rather than take the right steps to reduce the amount they’re producing in the first place. 
Elizabeth Card, 10
Queens, New York
If people get rewarded, they will recycle more. A good example of this is deposit-return schemes, which pay back a small amount of money when customers recycle an item. According to the United Kingdom’s Environmental Audit Committee, countries with deposit-return schemes have a much higher rate of recycling than other countries.
Andrew Horan, 9
Pelham, New York
People shouldn’t be rewarded for recycling. They should recycle anyway because the world has a lot of waste. Recycling is just a part of being a good citizen of Planet Earth. Do people need a reward for throwing garbage in the trash? No. It’s just the right thing to do. The same goes for recycling. It should be a part of everyday life now.
The Next Debate! Should summer reading be mandatory? Email your opinion to tfkeditors@time.com by May 5. Your response might appear in an upcoming issue.  
|||||The United States is full of incredible sights. Ready for a road trip with TFK? Hop in!
The Golden Gate Bridge

The Golden Gate Bridge spans the entrance to San Francisco Bay, in California. You can walk, drive, or ride a bike across the bridge. 
The Alamo 
 
The Alamo is in San Antonio, Texas. This site is historic. There was a big battle here in 1836. Today, it attracts many visitors. 
Cloud Gate

This giant sculpture stands in Chicago, Illinois. It is nicknamed the Bean. Can you see why? The sculpture is a mirror. What do you see in it? 

The Gateway Arch

The Gateway Arch is in St. Louis, Missouri. It is 630 feet high. It is one of the tallest monuments in the U.S.
|||||On February 18, NASA’s Perseverance rover landed on Mars. Its mission: to seek evidence of past microbial life. Something may have thrived on the planet billions of years ago.
The rover’s 300 million–mile journey to Mars’s orbit took nearly seven months. But its descent through the planet’s atmosphere took just seven minutes. The car-sized rover fell at 12,100 miles per hour. Air friction raised the temperature on its heat shield to 2,370°F.
HEATING UP An illustration shows the Perseverance rover and spacecraft entering Mars’s atmosphere.

The friction also acted as a brake. Within minutes, the ship slowed down. The heat shield came off, a parachute opened, and Perseverance drifted to the ground.
Cheers went up at Mission Control in California. “The team is beside itself,” NASA engineer Rob Manning said. “It’s so surreal.”
SUCCESS NASA’s Mission Control team in California cheers when the rover lands on Mars on February 18.

Looking for Clues

The rover will be on Mars for about two years. It will explore the Jezero Crater, an area 28 miles wide. Three and a half billion years ago, it was a lake. Water flowed through channels in the crater’s rim. The planet’s atmosphere was thick and warm. Those conditions can support life.

Later, Mars lost most of its atmosphere and nearly all of its water. The planet turned into a frigid desert. But if there was ever life on Mars, traces could remain. Fossils might be found in the dried-up lake.
TOUCHDOWN After separating from the heat shield and parachute, the rover is lowered into Jezero Crater by a rocket-powered craft.
The rover will search for these fossils. But it will look for other signs of past life, too. Rocky, wavy mounds might lie along the crater’s edges. They could have been made by colonies, or groups, of microbes.

Tools of the Trade

NASA ground controllers on Earth will set up the rover’s scientific instruments. These include:
a camera for seeking signs of past microbial life; 
an X-ray instrument for studying tiny particles;
a rock-busting laser; and

an instrument that will test the possibility of making oxygen out of carbon dioxide. This technology could help future astronauts on Mars produce breathable air and rocket fuel.
The rover also carries a small helicopter called Ingenuity. It will make test flights. On future Mars missions, helicopters could allow for exploration of hills and mountains.
READY TO WORK An illustration shows the Perseverance rover, with Ingenuity below
The Perseverance rover is the ninth American spacecraft to set down on Mars. The only other nation to get there was the former Soviet Union, now mostly part of Russia. Will Perseverance discover proof of extraterrestrial life? The possibility is thrilling to imagine.
Message From Space
The Mars rover landing was exciting enough. But NASA added a twist: a secret message.
The message was hidden in the pattern on the rover’s parachute (pictured). The pattern translates into binary code, the language of computers.
Maxence Abela is a computer science student in France. He and his dad, Jerome, cracked the code and posted the message on Twitter. It reads: “Dare mighty things.” That’s the motto of NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, in California.
|||||Dr. Ingrid Katz works at the Harvard Global Health Institute. She specializes in infectious diseases. TFK spoke with her about the new COVID-19 vaccines.
 TFK: What is a vaccine? 
Katz: A vaccine is a medication. You get an injection. The medication sends messages to your body’s immune system. It lets the immune system know that there is an invader. 
 TFK: Can you tell us about the COVID-19 vaccines?
 Katz: Coronaviruses have been around for a long time. But this strain of the virus is new, so none of us has immunity built into our system. The vaccine lets us build that immunity without our getting sick.  
 TFK: Why don’t kids need to get the COVID-19 vaccine right now?
 Katz: COVID-19 is much more of a problem for adults, especially older adults. In general, children are much less likely to get sick from it. 
 TFK: Is there anything else you want readers to know?
Katz: There is enthusiasm about the vaccine. But we have other ways to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Social distancing and wearing a mask are also really effective. 
|||||Many animals come from eggs. A female animal lays the eggs. After some time, a baby animal breaks out of the shell. Take a look.
Most snakes come from eggs.
 
Female snakes lay eggs on the ground. Some wrap themselves around the eggs to keep them safe and warm.
Birds come from eggs.
 
Most birds lay their eggs in a nest. The eggs hatch after about two weeks. 
This mammal lays eggs.
 
A female echidna lays an egg in a pouch on her body. The echidna is one of just two mammals that lay eggs. 
Frogs come from eggs.
Some frogs lay eggs in the water. They lay many at a time. The eggs are like jelly. A frog will grow up to live on land and in water. 
How Big?
The ostrich is the largest bird. It lays the biggest eggs of any animal. An ostrich egg can weigh five pounds! 
|||||Zoë Trisha Prinsloo cares about the beaches of Cape Town, South Africa. She leads cleanups there. She has a group called Save a Fishie! It has picked up plastic bottles, straws, and more. 
Plastic waste, including gloves and face masks, wash up on a beach in Egypt in October 2020.
Lately, Prinsloo has noticed more of one kind of waste: PPE. That stands for “personal protective equipment.” Face masks and gloves are two types of PPE. At a cleanup last year, Prinsloo saw eight different kinds of gloves. “I find masks more and more regularly too,” she told TIME for Kids. 
People are finding more and more PPE, such as face masks, littering our shorelines.
Lots of people wear PPE. It helps protect against COVID-19. But when PPE isn’t thrown out the right way, it pollutes the environment. It harms wildlife. This is a growing problem. Many people want to fix it.
A Pollution Solution
PPE stands for “personal protective equipment.” It includes face masks and gloves.
At least 8 million tons of plastic enter oceans each year. That’s according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature. In September 2020, the Ocean Conservancy held an International Coastal Cleanup. Tens of thousands of PPE items were found. George Leonard is the group’s chief scientist. He spoke to CNN. “PPE waste is a significant threat to oceans,” he said.
Two seagulls find a face mask on the ground in Dover, England, in August 2020.
PPE waste can hurt ocean animals. They can eat it or get tangled in it. Other wildlife is at risk too. Sue Schwar manages South Essex Wildlife Hospital. It’s in the United Kingdom. Her team rescued a seagull. “The loops of a face mask were bound around its legs,” she says. Thankfully, the staff was able to untangle the bird. It healed. They set it free and watched it fly away. 
How To Help
You can help solve the PPE problem. Wear clean reusable masks. Snip the straps before throwing any mask away. This will protect animals. They won’t get tangled up. Put used PPE in a garbage can with a secure lid. This is important when the can is outside. Masks and gloves can be carried away by the wind.
|||||The world is full of amazing places. But which are the coolest for kids? TIME for Kids put together a list of 50 exciting places around the globe. Learn about eight of them here. Which of these cool places would you like to visit?
Louisville Sluggers are baseball bats. They’re made in Kentucky at the LOUISVILLE SLUGGER MUSEUM & FACTORY. It’s a place that celebrates baseball. The Big Bat stands outside. It’s a giant replica of a bat used by Babe Ruth. He was a famous baseball player. Step inside the museum and you’ll see the Big Glove. It’s a work of art you can climb on. There’s also a batting cage where you can practice your swing. And you can pose with real bats used by star players.
COPENHILL opened in October in Copenhagen, Denmark. It’s a power plant and much more. It makes sustainable living fun. Check out the roof! It has a public park and a recreation center. There, you’ll find one of the world’s tallest climbing walls. Copenhill also has a hiking trail and gardens. Plus, there’s a 1,300-foot artificial ski slope. The slope lets you feel like you’re skiing. But it doesn’t rely on cold weather. Visitors can enjoy the fun year-round.
The DENALI STAR is a train that chugs through Alaska. It leaves the city of Anchorage every summer morning. After 12 hours, it reaches Fairbanks. It makes three stops. The train passes wetlands, forests, mountains, canyons, and glaciers. Sometimes, passengers can see the peak of Denali. That’s the tallest mountain in North America. For much of the trip, there’s no cell-phone service. Passengers can sit back, unplug, and enjoy the ride.
Step into ancient caves in the village of WAITOMO. They were first explored more than a century ago. Today, visitors can take a boat inside the caves. Look up! You’ll see sparkling lights. But look a little closer. These aren’t just any lights. They’re glowworms! Glowworms are the larvae of a type of gnat. The insect lives in New Zealand. At this young stage, it can grow as big as a matchstick. The glow comes from its bioluminescent tail.
CITY MUSEUM is in an old shoe warehouse. A school bus dangles from the roof. A huge jungle gym extends from the windows. Inside, there are dark caves and crashing waters. There are all the ramps, domes, tunnels, chutes, and slides a kid could want. Most of what’s inside City Museum is made of recycled materials. “City Museum is an evolving sculpture,” general manager Rick Erwin says. “It’s like the world’s largest playground.”
OTHERWORLD is an art installation in Columbus, Ohio. More than 40 artists helped create it. It’s full of secret passageways and playgrounds. Kids can fill in coloring books and solve puzzles. They can even crawl into the mouth of a fuzzy monster. “We want young readers to look at the world and think of new and fun ways to use the things they see,” operations director John Umland says.
Humans first landed on the moon in 1969. It was a big accomplishment! Many people helped make it happen. The APOLLO MISSION CONTROL CENTER is where they worked. It’s in Houston, Texas. In 1985, the center was made a National Historic Landmark. Today, you can experience the excitement for yourself. Learn about the engineers, scientists, and flight controllers who made the moon landing a reality. The center hosts events every day of the year.
The peanut butter and jelly sandwich is a classic. But PBJ.LA, in Los Angeles, California, gives it a twist. It uses unique nut butters and jams. The sandwiches are served on circular bread. A crimper seals the sandwich and removes the crust. But the crust doesn’t go to waste. It’s used to make cinnamon-and-sugar bites. Many of the ingredients are organic. And they’re made from scratch. “We wanted to take PB&J back to its roots,” says cofounder Payvand Salehi.
|||||Brighid Pulskamp has made hundreds of face masks for the people of the Navajo Nation. The tribe inhabits parts of Utah, Arizona, and New Mexico. Pulskamp wants us to remember the story of how the Navajo weathered the pandemic. “Our people are resilient,” she told TIME for Kids. “They have always learned to adapt.”
To make sure the story is told, Pulskamp has donated masks to the Autry Museum of the American West, in Los Angeles, California. In April, the museum issued a call for face masks, family recipes, and stories about how the pandemic was affecting people’s lives.
FACE MASKS Brighid Pulskamp’s masks are inspired by Navajo culture. They are part of the collection of the Autry Museum of the American West.
The Autry is not alone. Museums everywhere are collecting items to capture this historic moment as it’s happening. Long after the pandemic is over, ordinary things like hand sanitizer and grocery lists will tell historians how we experienced this life-changing event.
“We tend to think history is something that happened 20, 30, 100 years ago,” says Aaron Bryant, a curator at the National Museum of African American History and Culture, in Washington, D.C. The museum is documenting pandemic life. “But history happens before our eyes, every single day.”
Picture This
Eventually, museums hope to acquire things like medical equipment, social-distancing signs, and handwashing posters. For now, they’re mostly collecting digital artifacts, like photographs.
Maria Hagstrup is a curator at Vesthimmerlands Museum, in Denmark. When lockdown began there, in March 2020, she grabbed her camera. “I walked around my hometown, taking photos of­—actually—what did not happen!” she says. In Hagstrup’s photos and in others submitted to her museum, places normally filled with people—a row of businesses, a supermarket aisle—are deserted. Where there are people, they’re several feet apart, or separated by a window.
HAPPY BIRTHDAY Maria Hagstrup’s photos document pandemic life. This family is celebrating a birthday at a nursing home in Denmark.
There was a “feeling of great loneliness” everywhere, Hagstrup says. But there were lighter moments, too: “A dentist in equipment that looks like something from space,” she says. “Or people singing from their balconies.”
Personal Stories
Some institutions are asking people to share their stories. The California Historical Society (CHS) has received personal entries from kids. Xiomara, 13, from Marina, California, described staying home during the pandemic. She has missed her grandmother. “I like to let her know that I love her and care for her,” Xiomara wrote. “I could do that through the phone, but it’s just not the same as hugging someone and spending the day with them.”
KIDS’ ART Children thank healthcare workers with artwork in this photo from the New-York Historical Society.
Stories like this will help future generations understand the emotional impact of the pandemic, says CHS reference librarian and archivist Frances Kaplan. “People are not shying away from personal details,” she says. “They are being extremely open.”
That’s what museums are counting on. “History is made by ordinary people and their everyday lives,” Bryant says. “Even ordinary things”—like face masks—“can reflect history in an important way.”
STUCK AT HOME This photo of two sisters was submitted to the International Center of Photography’s pandemic art project.
What’s Your Story?
How has your life changed during the pandemic? Historians want to know how people are spending their time, what challenges they face, and what brings them moments of joy.
Libraries, historical societies, and museums in your area might have websites where you can submit your account of life during the pandemic. You may also be able to share pictures of pandemic-related objects. These might include grocery lists or art projects you’ve created while at home.
|||||TFK Kid Reporter Donnell Meekins talks with scientist and author Ainissa Ramirez about how science has shaped our world, and how it might shape the future.
1. Your book The Alchemy of Us is about inventions. Why are you interested in inventions?
As a materials scientist, I like making things. If you’re making an airplane, a materials scientist has to decide: What’s the best material for the job? So I am interested in other people’s inventions, because they can help me figure out how to make new things.
2. Why is it important to get people excited about science?
Most of the big questions in our world involve science. It makes our cell phones possible. Someday, we’ll have driverless cars. I think if people knew more about science, they would feel more connected to the world.
3. What’s one big problem science could help solve?
Climate change is something we need to work on. We need better green technology, like solar cells, so we can use energy from the sun, and better magnets, so that wind turbines can make energy more efficiently.
4. You’ve written about bias in technology. Can you explain what that is?
Here’s an example. Some water faucets have a light sensor that detects your hand. But that sensor may be designed only for lighter skin. If I were to put my hand in front of it, water wouldn’t come out. Whoever made this sensor probably tested it on themselves and their friends. But they didn’t test it on someone who had a different color skin. That’s why we need to have people with a range of experiences working on projects.
5. I read that a TV show inspired you to become a scientist. Can you talk about that?
Yes. The show was called 3-2-1 Contact. It had kids solving problems. One of the kids was an African-American girl. When I was growing up, you didn’t see a lot of African-American people portrayed in a positive way on television. This girl was using her brain. I said, “That’s what I want to do.”
6. What can science fiction teach us about science?
Science fiction can help us imagine the future. It can be a map that shows us which way we should go with technology, and which way we should not go.
7. How is science related to other school subjects, like art or English?
We separate subjects in school, but in life, they are not separated. Science happens in history. It touches culture. Scientists can be influenced by art or writing.
8. What advice would you offer a budding scientist?
If science class gets hard, tell a teacher right away. Everyone should get a shot at science. Find other people who like science, and encourage one another. And the next time something breaks at home, ask your parents, “Can we take this apart?” Just to see how things work.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
|||||The United Kingdom’s royal family announced on April 9 that Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, had died. He was 99. 
Philip was the husband of Queen Elizabeth II. He served as a naval officer in World War II. He also devoted nearly 70 years to public service, working with nearly a thousand charities and organizations. 
Elizabeth and Philip married in 1947. They had four children, including Prince Charles, who is next in line to the throne. Prince William and Prince Harry are Elizabeth and Philip’s grandchildren. 
World leaders offered condolences. On Twitter, President Joe Biden wrote, “Jill and I are keeping the Queen and Prince Philip’s children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and the people of the United Kingdom in our hearts.”
|||||Looking for something new to read? TIME for Kids has recommendations. Our editors selected some of the most exciting books of 2020. Then we handed them off to our team of TFK Kid Reporters to review. Here, TFK Kid Reporter Donnell Meekins shares his thoughts on A Dog-Friendly Town, by Josephine Cameron. For more book reviews, check back next week.
A Dog-Friendly Town is a suspenseful book that takes place at Perro Del Mar, a dog-friendly bed-and-breakfast owned by the McDade family. The McDades are two parents and three kids—Epic, Rondo, and Elvis—with very different personalities. When a jewel-studded dog collar goes missing, the siblings and their friends embark on a mission to find it.
Unfortunately, I connected to the part in the book where a kid has money stolen from his pocket at summer art camp. Rondo says he took the cash to teach people that thieves are real! I have learned from experience that keeping money in short pockets or socks is an invitation for thieves. I would recommend this book to people who like dogs and mysteries.
|||||TIME created a list of the 100 best fantasy books ever. TIME for Kids editors chose 10 favorites for kids. Read about them here. They're listed in order of publication, beginning in 1865. 
Alice's Adventures in Wonderland
More than 150 years after its publication, Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll, is still one of the most celebrated works in the history of literature. The book is about a curious girl who falls down a rabbit hole into a world of talking animals. It began as a series of stories that Carroll told to a friend’s three young daughters. When it was published, it changed children’s literature. Carroll introduced a playful, nonsensical style. It influenced writers for years to come. The book has inspired everything from operas to amusement-park rides to video games. —By Judy Berman
Five Children and It 
Five brothers and sisters move into a summer home in the English countryside. They go digging in the nearby gravel-pits and make a curious discovery. At the bottom of a hole, they find a strange furry creature. They learn it’s a Psammead, or Sand-fairy. The Psammead has magical powers: It can grant each child one wish per day. But the wishes have unintended consequences. Five Children and It, by E. Nesbit, was published in 1902. It has never been out of print. —By Annabel Gutterman
Mary Poppins
P.L. Travers’s classic story contains one of the most fascinating main characters in the history of children’s literature: the peculiar and magical nanny Mary Poppins. The book follows Poppins after the east wind blows her to the home of the Banks family, on Cherry Tree Lane. The story has so much heart, it has inspired movies and music for generations.  —By Annabel Gutterman
The Phantom Tollbooth
The Phantom Tollbooth is about a bored boy named  Milo. One day, he drives his toy car through a tollbooth that’s mysteriously appeared in his bedroom. He’s transported to the Kingdom of Wisdom. This curious land is divided by a feud over whether numbers or letters are more important. Milo makes two friends there. Tock is a watchdog—literally. The Humbug is a giant insect who loves to brag. They journey to the Castle in the Air. Along the way, Milo discovers the true joy of learning. Author Norton Juster called the book an “accidental masterpiece.” It was inspired by his own childhood boredom. —By Megan McCluskey
Tuck Everlasting
Natalie Babbitt’s story follows young Winnie Foster as she comes to know the Tuck family. After drinking from an enchanted spring on the Foster's property, the Tucks have been granted immortality and will live forever. Winnie must keep their secret as outsiders try to profit from the powerful spring water. Along the way, she learns something important: The fact that life comes to an end gives meaning to all that comes before. —By Eliza Berman
The BFG
In The BFG, by Roald Dahl, the young and kind triumph over darkness and hardship no matter the odds. An orphan named Sophie is snatched from her bed in the dead of night by a mysterious 24-foot-tall being. He refers to himself as the BFG, or Big Friendly Giant. The pair form an unlikely friendship. But when Sophie learns that the BFG is the only vegetarian among his child-eating companions, she determines to put a stop to their murderous ways. —By Megan McCluskey
Haroun and the Sea of Stories
Haroun and the Sea of Stories follows a 12-year-old boy who lives in an ancient city “so ruinously sad that it had forgotten its name.” He goes on a mission to restore his father’s lost gift for storytelling. Author Salman Rushdie’s beautiful descriptions, playful language, colorful characters, and sense of humor make it a timeless adventure story.  —By Judy Berman
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban is the third of the seven Harry Potter books. It’s widely thought to be the best book in the series. In the novel, Harry and friends deal with soul-sucking Dementors, time travel and the prison escape of mass-murderer Sirius Black. They also begin to look outside the halls of the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. As they do, they start to understand the larger battle against injustice that is brewing in their world. —By Megan McCluskey
Where the Mountain Meets the Moon
Young Minli lives with her poor parents in the valley of Fruitless Mountain. She loves to listen to her father share folktales about the Jade Dragon and the Old Man of the Moon. Determined to change her family’s fate, Minli sets off on an adventure to meet the Old Man of the Moon. Along the way, she’s introduced to magical creatures and befriends a dragon who can’t fly. Minli’s exploration is depicted with joy and pockets of sadness. In the story, author Grace Lin celebrates Chinese folklore and fairy tales. —By Annabel Gutterman
Aru Shah and the End of Time
To fit in at school, 12-year-old Aru Shah bends the truth. A lot. Aru’s mom works at the Museum of Ancient Indian Art and Culture. It’s there that Aru’s lies finally catch up to her. She tells her classmates there’s a curse on the museum’s Lamp of Bharata. To prove it, she lights the lamp—and accidentally awakens an ancient demon. To make things right, Aru must find the Pandava brothers. They are characters from an epic Hindu poem. They’ve died and been reborn in a new form. In Aru Shah and the End of Time, author Roshani Chokshi weaves Hindu myths and snappy writing into an exciting adventure. —By Annabel Gutterman
|||||It’s important to keep your body and mind healthy. Here are a few ways you can take care of yourself.
Wash your hands. 
Wash your hands often. Use soap and warm water. Washing your hands will help keep you from getting sick.   
Move your body.
Run around. Jump up and down. Go on a walk. Play a sport. Or just put on some music and dance. It is important to get at least an hour of exercise each day. 
Get a good night’s sleep. 
Sleep improves your memory and mood. It also helps you stay healthy. Try to get 10 hours of sleep every night. 
Practice mindfulness.
Focus on your thoughts and feelings. Let your mind stay on this moment right now. Practicing mindfulness can make you feel calm. 
Try It!
Anyone Can practice mindfulness. Close your eyes. Count to four as you breathe in. Then count to four as you breathe out. Do this a few times.
|||||Karachi is a city in Pakistan. It is one of the hottest places on Earth. In 2015, more than 1,000 people died there during a heat wave. “It was a very terrible time,” Shahzad Qureshi told TIME for Kids. “We needed to do something about it.”
Qureshi took action. He started a group called Urban Forest. It plants trees in cities across Pakistan. Trees provide shade. They help cool the air (see “The Power of Trees”). This is especially helpful in cities, where roads and buildings hold in the heat.
Sophiya (left) is a student at Karachi Grammar School. Here, a member of the Urban Forest team helps her plant a tree.
For its first project, Urban Forest planted about 1,300 trees in a park in Karachi. The group uses a special method that helps the trees grow quickly. In three years, the trees grew to be 30 feet tall. Qureshi hopes the park will one day become a forest of 50,000 trees.
Since 2015, Qureshi and his team have planted eight urban forests in Pakistan. Six are in Karachi. In addition to cooling the air, the trees provide a habitat for birds, insects, and other creatures. Some trees grow fruit for people and animals to eat. 
Urban Forest plants native trees in a park in Karachi, Pakistan, in November 2015.
In 2017, Qureshi helped plant an urban forest at Karachi Grammar School. First, he met with students to teach them how trees help the environment. Then students planted saplings in the schoolyard. The trees attract birds and colorful butterflies. Students go outside during science class to study the forest. “It’s like a library of native trees in front of the kids,” says Qureshi. “It’s a beautiful thing to see.”
Trees are powerful plants. They can help lower summer temperatures in cities by 2° to 
9°F. That’s according 
to the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency. How do they do it? 
Trees make shade. Air 
temperatures are cooler in the shade. And trees 
release water through their leaves. This helps cool the air, too. 
|||||Movies are filled with sound. You hear actors talk. You hear music. You also hear sound effects. These are especially important in animated films. 
People who make sound effects are called Foley artists. They use their imagination and lots of different tools to get the job done.

Shelley Roden (top left) is a Foley artist. She has worked on films like Moana and Finding Dory. “A Foley artist’s job is to be an actor, a musician, and an athlete all at the same time,” Roden told TIME for Kids. For Toy Story 4, she watched Buzz Lightyear onscreen, copied his moves, and figured out the sounds he would make.
While working on Incredibles 2, Roden used a rubbery mask to make the sound of Elastigirl stretching. She says the Foley stage looks “like a big yard sale” filled with “useful junk.” 
|||||A tree has fallen in the forest. Its branches are rotting. But rotting logs are full of life. Look what lives and grows on logs.

Ferns grow on fallen wood. These leafy plants do not have flowers.

Mushrooms are a type of fungus. Bugs feast on them.  

Logs are home to bugs, like centipedes.  

Ants tunnel through logs.

Pill bugs live beneath logs. They love places that are cool and dark. 

Moss is a flat green plant. It grows well in shady spots. Some grasses do too! 

A previous version of this article misstated that a centipede is an insect. A centipede is not an insect, it is an arthropod. 
|||||On Election Day, presidential candidates often express confidence that they’ll win the race. They sometimes do this while votes are still being counted. But it’s not up to a candidate to declare a winner. Nor is it up to his or her campaign or political party.
The winner and loser of a presidential race is not official until every state’s votes are counted and certified by state election officials. That can take days or weeks after an election is held.
Yet in many cases, newsrooms announce a winner in a state based on partial counts. Say candidate A is far ahead in a given state. A newsroom can decide that candidate B cannot catch up, even if he or she gets all the remaining uncounted votes. Candidate A can be declared the winner. This is an unofficial result, but it’s usually accurate.
Many news outlets, including TIME for Kids, rely on the Associated Press for election results. That’s because the AP does careful research and analysis before calling an election. It has reporters in every state who consult with election officials and check election websites. In 2016, the AP projection was accurate in every state where it declared a winner.
|||||Are you a big sports fan? If so, chances are you’ve read articles by a sports journalist. The writer may have broken down a game or profiled one of your favorite athletes.
Sean Gregory is a senior sports correspondent for TIME magazine. He told TIME for Kids that being a sports journalist involves more than just going to games. Like all good journalists, Gregory takes specific steps to write a compelling story.
First, he decides which people he wants to interview. Gregory says that getting multiple perspectives on a sport, event, or player adds interesting layers to an article. That’s why he doesn’t talk to just athletes but also to coaches and spectators.
Next, Gregory puts together a list of questions. He says the questions are intended to “elicit passionate answers and a good conversation.” 
TALKING TO THE PROS As a sports journalist for TIME, Sean Gregory has spoken with stars such as LeBron James and Serena Williams.
Knowing how to ask insightful questions isn’t the only skill that’s required of sportswriters. They also need to understand data compiled by sports analysts. Sports analysts use statistics to predict trends. 
“Analytics has become a bigger part of my job,” Emily Kaplan says. She’s a hockey reporter for ESPN. Kaplan says that writing about hockey includes analyzing which players are most effective and valuable. “The way that we quantify a lot of those things [is] through statistics and through math,” she says. 
A Pandemic at Play
The COVID-19 pandemic has changed how sports journalists do their job. Many sports were canceled in the spring. Some resumed over the summer and fall. As a safety measure, reporters are either not permitted to go to games or allowed to go only in small numbers. 
Gregory hasn’t been to a game in months. He speaks to players on Zoom calls, but he misses being able to chat with fans at events. Sometimes, “they say funny things that enliven stories,” Gregory says.
For now, many sports journalists are busy writing articles that take place off the field, court, or rink. For example, Kaplan wrote about how COVID-19 impacted the finances of National Hockey League owners. Gregory reported on how coronavirus shutdowns are affecting athletes’ mental health. “What this pandemic has taught all of us is that we just need to find ways to adapt,” Kaplan says. “And we’ll adapt again when things are normal.”
|||||Dear TFK,
I’ve noticed that you focus a lot on young activists in your articles, and I love it! They are all so inspiring. When I feel inspired, I want to go out and do something, make a change in my community, and be an activist. So I wonder, what does it take to be an activist? How do you start? Can I become one? Surely, some of your readers would like to know.
Carolina Mariel Caraballo, 11
Bronx, New York
Dear Carolina, 
Anyone can become an activist if there’s an issue they feel strongly about. I started speaking up about disabilities because I know what it’s like to have one and be treated differently because of it. 
When I was little, I noticed that toy figures didn’t look like me. At 10, I started a petition. I asked a toy company to offer limb-different options. I spoke about it on the news. After more than a year, I got to work with a design team on a Barbie doll. It uses a prosthetic leg. The experience showed me that the more I spoke up, the more changes I could make.
Being an activist may mean speaking up in a more public way than you usually would. Taking risks is a big part of being an activist. 
Your age doesn’t matter. Many kids are fighting for change. Mari Copeny, 13, is making sure our country has safe drinking water. Naomi Wadler was your age when she spoke at the March for Our Lives rally to stop gun violence. Haven Coleman and Taylor Richardson are both teenagers. Haven is raising awareness of the climate crisis. Taylor is making sure that girls of all races are included in STEAM education.
If you care about an issue, learn as much as you can about it. Find ways to speak up. Maybe it’s writing a letter to your local paper. Maybe it’s starting a club. You can work with other kids to unite your voices and make a change. 
You don’t have to do something as big as launching a new toy or speaking at a rally. If you help even one person learn and change, you’ve made a big difference. —By Jordan Reeves
|||||According to the Union of Concerned Scientists, there are nearly 2,800 working satellites in space. We depend on these devices for technology we use every day, such as video calls, online maps, satellite TV, and weather tracking. Scientists use them to study space and learn more about our planet.
But there are many other satellites in orbit that are no longer working. They’re among the objects cluttering up space. Some of these eventually fall back toward Earth, either landing or burning up in the atmosphere. But much of this space junk circles Earth for decades.
SUPER SIZE Space junk comes in different sizes. This big chunk from a rocket fell to Earth in May.
Space junk is a problem. Debris floating around Earth puts technology and future space missions at risk. Experts are working on solutions. “We still have time to act responsibly,” Vitali Braun, an engineer at European Space Agency (ESA), told TIME for Kids.
Trash Trouble

Orbital debris,  a type of space junk, is any human-made object that has stopped working but continues to float around the Earth. This includes abandoned satellites and pieces of spacecraft, such as rocket stages. “It’s a legacy problem,” Braun says. “You have a satellite or rocket stages put into space in the 1960s, and they’re still there.” 
Space junk also includes fragments of objects. These occur when satellites collide with things. They also result from an object crashing into an old rocket stage that still contains fuel, causing an explosion. Braun says there have been more than 250 space explosions since the 1960s. 
DAMAGED This solar panel from the Hubble Space Telescope was damaged by orbital debris.

Heather Cowardin works at NASA. She says the United States is tracking more than 23,000 pieces of space debris (see “Too Much Junk”). These tiny fragments can damage working satellites, which can affect research in space.
Cosmic Cleanup
Companies all over the world are working to clean up the area surrounding our planet. Astroscale, a company based in Japan, is one of them. It plans to launch the ELSA-d mission soon. This mission will test the concept of using magnets to collect space debris. 
Chris Blackerby is Astroscale’s chief operating officer. 
TRASH COLLECTORS Illustrations from Astroscale show the tools they hope to use to remove space junk
He says the idea is to get companies to put magnetic plates on satellites before launching them. Then an Astroscale spacecraft could attach to the magnetic plate and remove nonworking satellites from space. Cleaning up space junk isn’t easy, Blackerby adds. “We’re trying to pick up a piece of trash that’s moving at 17,500 miles an hour,” he says.
SPACE SWEEPER Astroscale and Japanese government officials pose in front of an ELSA-d satellite. It will use magnets to collect space debris.

Another mission is led by a company based in Switzerland. It’s called ClearSpace, and its work will be supported by ESA. ClearSpace plans to launch a debris-removal spacecraft in 2025. The craft will grab a piece of an old rocket, slow it down, and eject it back to Earth. Eventually, the debris will “burn out like a shooting star,” says cofounder Luc Piguet. 
TRASH COLLECTORS Illustrations from ClearSpace show the tool they hope to use to remove space junk.
Governments are trying to help too. Some are updating their country’s space guidelines to limit the amount of debris created. The sustainability of space “is not a single-agency or a single-country problem that we can solve,” Cowardin says. “We have to work on this together.”
Too Much Junk
Thousands of marble-size fragments and millions the size of pencil lead are orbiting Earth. That’s according to NASA’s Heather Cowardin. Some result from satellites colliding with other objects. Cowardin says fragments can travel extremely fast. And they damage working satellites. That’s why cleanup efforts are so important. This chart from ESA shows the increase in space debris over time. 

|||||Do you ride a school bus? Most school buses are powered by gas. It harms the environment. Some people want to switch to ELECTRIC BUSES. These buses are powered by batteries. Electric buses are better for the environment. What do you think? Should schools switch to electric buses?

|||||NASA has sent spacecraft to Mars since the 1960s. This timeline shows big moments from past trips to the Red Planet.
1965
Mariner 4 is the first spacecraft to successfully fly by Mars. It sends back 21 images of a dry, cold planet without signs of life.
1997
Mars Pathfinder lands with a rover named Sojourner. It is the first robot to land on Mars. It sends thousands of images back to Earth. 
2004
The rovers Opportunity and Spirit land on Mars. They find evidence that water once flowed on the Red Planet.
2018
NASA sends the InSight lander to Mars. It digs deep beneath the surface to study heat inside the planet. 
|||||The 2020 Nobel Peace Prize was awarded on October 9. It went to the World Food Programme (WFP). WFP is a United Nations agency. It provides emergency help to people who don’t have access to food. Its efforts have come at a crucial time. In 2020, there has been a rise in the number of people facing starvation. That’s because of the coronavirus pandemic.
Berit Reiss-Andersen heads the Norwegian Nobel Committee. It’s based in Oslo, Norway. She says the committee wants to “turn the eyes of the world towards the millions of people who suffer from or face the threat of hunger.”
WFP works mainly in places affected by conflict. Last year, the group worked in 88 countries. It provided food to 97 million people.
David Beasley leads WFP. In a statement, he said there’s no hope for a peaceful planet if people are hungry. The Nobel award, he said, “is a reminder that food security, peace, and stability go together.”
Stop and Think! Why is WFP’s Nobel Peace Prize newsworthy? After reading the article, are you more concerned about world hunger? Why or why not?
|||||A new virus is going around. It’s called the coronavirus. People around the world are working together to stop its spread. 
Everyone is doing their part to help. Doctors and nurses are caring for the sick. Scientists are working on treatments and cures. Leaders are coming up with plans to protect their citizens. And many people are staying home.  
Grocery stores are still open, so people are able to stock up on food. Police and firefighters are still on the job. They are keeping our communities safe. Post offices are still sending out mail and packages. And pharmacies are making sure people get the medicines they need. 
You Are Helping, Too! 
Have you been staying home from school? If so, you’re helping to keep the virus from spreading. The virus can be spread through droplets from coughs and sneezes. It can also be spread through contact with surfaces where it sits. Staying away from others helps keep people healthy. By learning from home, you’re doing your part. 
Staying away from others isn’t easy. But you can stay connected. Talk with a friend by phone or video. Ask how he or she is doing. See how you can help out a parent or sibling. 
It’s also an important time for taking good care of yourself. Go outside and get fresh air. Find ways to stay active. Try a new art project. Read a book or write in a journal. Share your feelings with family and friends. We can all work together!
|||||The United States government has three branches. Congress is the legislative branch. It makes laws. Congress is made up of the Senate and the House of Representatives. Take a look!  
This is the U.S. Capitol building. 

It is in Washington, D.C. Congress has been meeting here since 1800. Leaders come together to talk about plans for  laws. Then they vote on them. 
The Senate is part of Congress.
Congress has 100 senators. That means there are two senators for each of the 50 states. Senators serve six-year terms. 
The House of Representatives is part of Congress. 
There are 435 voting members in the House of Representatives. They serve two-year terms. Some states have more representatives than others. The number depends on how many people live in the state. 
Meet Nancy Pelosi
Nancy Pelosi is Speaker of the House. That means she leads the House of Representatives. She is the first woman to have this job. 
|||||Are we alone in the universe? Scientists have spent years searching deep into space for signs of life beyond our planet. Now they’ve detected what might be life right next door.
On September 14, in the journal Nature Astronomy, scientists reported the discovery of a chemical called phosphine in the clouds of Venus. On Earth, phosphine gas is given off by living things. It’s found in places such as swamps and animals’ intestines. Scientists aren’t yet able to prove that life on Venus is what’s producing the phosphine. But they can’t explain the source of the gas in any other way.
Sara Seager is a coauthor of the report and a planetary scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “It is a big deal,” she told TIME for Kids. “Phosphine is such a mysterious gas, and it shouldn’t be on Venus.”
The Meaning of Life
Venus is the second planet from the sun in our solar system. It’s one of the brightest objects in the night sky. Several billion years ago, the surfaces of Venus and Earth may have been more similar. But today, the surface of Venus is too hot to sustain life. And until recently, Venus’s thick clouds were thought to be too toxic for a living thing to survive there.
Harvard University astrochemist Clara Sousa-Silva was also on the team that spotted phosphine in Venus’s clouds. She’s spent her career looking for signs of life in space. “I hadn’t considered our solar system was a good place to look for life,” Sousa-Silva says. “And definitely not Venus, because Venus is so awful.”
Missions to Venus could uncover more about the gas and the possibility of life there. Scientists don’t expect to find complex life in Venus’s clouds. Instead, they might find something like bacteria. 
“If it is in fact life, then we have detected our first alien species,” Sousa-Silva says. “If that wasn’t cool enough, it would also mean that life must be very common.”
The discovery of life beyond Earth would teach us more about the universe and our place in it. To Sousa-Silva, it would say something about our importance. “I like finding out that we as humans aren’t that special,” she says. “There’s a big universe out there filled with all sorts of other life with different needs and desires.”
|||||This time of year, you might see lions roaming the streets. They prance to the beat of a drum.
They aren’t real lions: They’re dancers in colorful lion costumes. They’re celebrating a tradition that originated in China. It’s meant to bring good luck in the coming year. In many Asian countries, the new year is celebrated with the new moon that occurs in late January or early February. This year, the holiday begins on February 12. 
Typically, a lion is made up of two dancers. One dancer controls the head. The other controls the tail. There are different kinds of lion dances. The most spectacular might be jong, or pole, jumping (pictured above). The dance combines martial arts skills and acrobatics. 

“I think of it as a sport,” says Anthony Huang, 15. He’s a dancer at the New York Chinese Freemasons Athletic Club. Anthony has performed as the lion’s tail. This is his first year controlling the head. It can weigh 20 pounds.

It’s important to Anthony to pass on this historical dance form. “This tradition really represents me,” he says. 
Changing Times
Lion dances were once performed mostly by males. These days, the activity is more inclusive.
LionDanceMe is a group in San Francisco, California. On its teams, boys and girls work together. Anyone can take up lion dancing, says team member Ananda Tang-Lee, 16. “You have to have confidence that you can do it,” she says.
During the pandemic, LionDanceMe has recorded performances to show online. The group is excited to perform in person again, when it’s safe. 
“It’s a different performance in real life,” says Isabella Yu, 16. She plays drums, cymbals, and gong. “We bring a lot more than just the performance. We bring energy and excitement, too.” 

Lion dancing will likely continue to evolve. But a team’s sense of community will never change. “We call it a family,” Ananda says. “It’s really great, because we always have each other’s backs.”
|||||When you think of a journalist, do you see a reporter with a pen and paper? Writing is one way to tell a story. But some stories are told without words.
Photojournalists are reporters too. They use a camera to capture a story in photos. You can see their work in the pictures that appear with an article. Their photos show readers the people and places being described. Photojournalists also create photo essays. Photo essays tell a story with few or no words.
Meet Alice Aedy
Alice Aedy is a photojournalist and filmmaker. She’s based in London, England. Aedy reports on stories about social justice and human rights. She also covers environmental issues. Aedy told TIME for Kids that she’s “passionate about climate change” because of how it affects people’s lives.
Photojournalism helps people understand current events. Photojournalists aren’t just photographers. They’re storytellers. They need to be on the scene and talk to people about what’s going on. Aedy has traveled the world to do her reporting. She spends as much time as she can in the country where a story is taking place. “I want my photos to build empathy,” she says, “and make people care.”
A Critical Eye
Aedy says that photography should be viewed “with a critical eye.” Viewers should ask themselves questions like, “When, where, and why was it taken?” and “Was the photo taken with the permission of its subjects?”
It’s also important for viewers to think about how a photograph makes them feel. “We’re bombarded with images every single day,” Aedy says. “So my hope is that whatever you’re looking at, you just truly engage with it.”
|||||February is Black History Month. Here are four firsts in Black history. These famous people led the way.
She won a big match. 
Althea Gibson was the first Black tennis champion at Wimbledon. She won the big match in 1957.  
She changed schools. 
In 1960, Ruby Bridges became the youngest Black child to go to a white school in the South.  
He led a country.  
 
Barack Obama was the 44th president of the United States, from 2009 to 2017. He was the country’s first Black president.  
She leads the library.  

Carla Hayden became the first Black Librarian of Congress, in 2016. She heads the world’s biggest library. 
|||||On Earth Day, people around the world work to help our planet. But April 22 isn’t the only day this happens. Many people, including kids, protect the Earth all year long. Read about five inspiring Kid Heroes for the Planet, then decide how you will make a difference.
Saving the Frogs
Justin Sather (above) is from Los Angeles, California. He has always loved frogs. When he was 5, Justin learned that their habitat was in danger. So he hopped into action. Justin started a group called For the Love of Frogs. He sold toy frogs to raise money. Now, Justin is 10. He has raised more than $20,000 to support frog conservation. Because of his work, Justin was a 2020 Gloria Barron Prize for Young Heroes honoree.  
Justin told TIME for Kids that frogs show signs of illness earlier than other animals do when their habitat is threatened. “Frogs are telling us our planet really needs your help,” he says. Justin also raises awareness of issues such as habitat destruction and ocean pollution. —By Karena Phan
Growing Right
When Aadya Joshi was 15, she turned a junk lot in her neighborhood, in Mumbai, India, into a garden. She used plants native to the area. Joshi says native plants attract native insects and animals. 

Now 18, Joshi is leading the Right Green. It’s an organization she founded to educate people about growing native plants and maintaining healthy ecosystems. She also created a database of more than 2,000 plants in India. It’s a resource where people can learn which plant species are native to their area. Joshi is still adding to it. “The way to fix the habitat isn’t just to plant any tree,” she says. “It’s to make sure you replace what was torn down from that spot.” —K.P.
Cleaning Up
Jeremy Muchilwa, 13, and Michelle Muchilwa, 15, are siblings from Kisumu, Kenya. In June 2020, they participated in the Ocean Heroes Bootcamp. They were inspired to fight plastic pollution. So they created a campaign. Its goal was to pick up plastic waste in nearby Lake Victoria.

The siblings worked with the Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute. “We were so shy and scared because we didn’t think they were going to help us,” Jeremy says. “When we were welcomed, we were so shocked. They were so kind and helped us so much.”

The Muchilwas want to find new ways to draw attention to plastic waste. “When you are coming up with solutions, you need to have people talk to one another,” Michelle says. “Everyone can solve a problem. You can use your talents to create change.” —By Ellen Nam
Creating Energy
Eleven-year-old Xavier Baquero-Iglesias was playing with a friend on Astroturf in Naples, Florida. He noticed the field was super hot. It was much hotter than real grass. Xavier formed a hypothesis about why this was so. Then he invented SoleX Turf. It uses the heat from Astroturf to make electricity. 
Now 12, Xavier says his invention creates electricity in a way that is less harmful to the environment. “I wanted to find a way to reduce the effects [of climate change]. And the main way to do that is to find renewable energy sources,” he says. “I wanted to learn all that I could . . . to find solutions to our global problems.” —E.N.
|||||On Earth Day, people around the world work to help our planet. But April 22 isn’t the only day this happens. Many people, including kids, protect the Earth all year long. Read about five inspiring Kid Heroes for the Planet, then decide how you will make a difference.
Saving the Frogs
Justin Sather (above), from Los Angeles, California, has always loved frogs. When he was 5, Justin learned that his favorite animal’s habitat was in danger. So he hopped into action. He started a group called For the Love of Frogs and sold toy frogs to raise money. Now 10, Justin has raised more than $20,000 to support frog conservation. For his efforts, he was a 2020 Gloria Barron Prize for Young Heroes honoree.  

Justin told TIME for Kids that frogs are an “indicator species.” This means that when their habitat is threatened, they show signs of illness earlier than other animals. “Frogs are telling us our planet really needs your help,” Justin says. In addition to helping his favorite amphibians, Justin raises awareness of issues such as habitat destruction and ocean pollution. —By Karena Phan
Growing Right
When Aadya Joshi was 15, she converted a junk lot in her neighborhood, in Mumbai, India, into a garden. She used plants native to the area. Joshi says native species attract native insects and animals. “The way to fix the habitat isn’t just to plant any tree,” she says. “It’s to make sure you replace what was torn down from that spot.”  

Now, at 18, Joshi is leading the Right Green,  an organization she founded to educate people, including students, about growing native plants and maintaining healthy ecosystems. She also created a database of more than 2,000 plants in India. It’s a resource where people can learn which plant species are native to their area. Joshi is still adding to the database. “If you believe in something,” she says, “you really have to go out and do it yourself, no matter what someone tells you.” —K.P.
Cleaning Up
Jeremy Muchilwa, 13, and Michelle Muchilwa, 15, are siblings from Kisumu, Kenya. After participating in the Ocean Heroes Bootcamp in June 2020, they were inspired to fight plastic pollution in nearby Lake Victoria. They designed a campaign to bring the community together to pick up plastic waste. 
With help from the Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute, the sister-and-brother team explored sustainable ways to keep Lake Victoria clean. “We were so shy and scared because we didn’t think they were going to help us,” Jeremy says. “When we were welcomed, we were so shocked. They were so kind and helped us so much.”
The Muchilwas hope to find new ways to draw attention to plastic pollution. “When you are coming up with solutions, you need to have people talk to one another,” Michelle says. “Everyone can solve a problem. You can use your talents to create change.” —By Ellen Nam
Creating Energy
While playing with a friend on Astroturf in Naples, Florida, 11-year-old Xavier Baquero-Iglesias noticed something: it was super hot, much hotter than real grass. Xavier used his knowledge of science to form a hypothesis about why this was so. Then he invented SoleX Turf. It uses the heat from Astroturf to make electricity.
Now 12, Xavier says his invention creates electricity in a way that’s less harmful to the environment than other energy sources. “I wanted to find a way to reduce the effects [of climate change], and the main way to do that is to find renewable energy sources,” he says. “I wanted to learn all that I could . . . to find solutions to our global problems.” —E.N.
|||||Patty Garvey-Darda is a wildlife biologist. She works to protect wildlife from roadway accidents. Every year, there are more than a million of these involving animals and vehicles. That’s according to the Federal Highway Administration. 
An overpass for wildlife is built in Washington State in 2016.
These accidents kill wildlife. They also kill people. Wildlife crossings are a solution to the problem. People are building bridges and overpasses on big highways. These will help animals cross roads safely. They will keep people and animals from getting hurt.
Under Construction
Wildlife crossings have been built all over the world. In the U.S., they have been built in Arizona, Utah, and Wyoming. There is also a major project in Washington State. Garvey-Darda is working on this project. She’s helping to design about 20 wildlife crossings. They are expected to be completed by 2029. At press time, six underpasses had been built for the project. One overpass had been built, too. 
Cars stop for a deer as it crosses a street in Boulder, Colorado.
Garvey-Darda says these crossings have made a big difference. “We now have close to 5,000 deer and elk going through the undercrossings,” she told TIME for Kids. “All of these animals were potential accidents.” 
How will animals know where to cross? Plants can be grown on wildlife bridges. The plants will attract the animals. Then the animals will cross in safety. 
“It’s important to be proactive,” Garvey-Darda says. 
Success!
Banff National Park, in Alberta, Canada, is a model for wildlife crossings around the world.
Banff National Park is in Alberta, Canada. It has 38 underpasses and six bridges for wildlife. They were completed in 2014. They are keeping people and animals safe. Today, there are 80% fewer collisions with wildlife at Banff. This is thanks to the wildlife crossings. 
|||||African elephants are becoming more endangered. That’s according to a March 25 report by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The group determines how likely animals are to become extinct. 
There are two species of African elephant. Savanna elephants roam grasslands. Forest elephants live in the woods.  
Over the past 50 years, the savanna elephant population has fallen by 60%. The IUCN lists the animal as endangered. The forest elephant population has fallen by more than 86% over 31 years. These animals are critically endangered. 
The last time the IUCN looked at African elephants was in 2008. Back then, they were listed as vulnerable. That’s the category before endangered. 
There are two main threats to elephants: poaching and habitat loss. Bruno Oberle is the IUCN director. He hopes the report inspires action. “Africa’s elephants play key roles in ecosystems, economies, and in our collective imagination all over the world,” Oberle says.
Stop and Think! What data does the author use in this article? How does the data help you understand the problem the article describes?
|||||Looking for something new to read? TIME for Kids has recommendations. Our editors selected some of the most exciting books of 2020. Then we handed them off to our team of TFK Kid Reporters to review. Here, TFK Kid Reporter Sophia Hou shares her thoughts on Daring Darleen, Queen of the Screen, by Anne Nesbet. For more book reviews, check back next week.
It’s 1914, and Darleen Darling is a 12-year-old girl who stars in silent films. In Daring Darleen, Queen of the Screen, Darleen’s family attempts to stage a fake kidnapping to gain publicity for a film. But there’s an unexpected turn of events. Darleen is taken by criminals during a real kidnapping of Victorine Berryman, a wealthy heiress. Darleen and Victorine must now find a way to escape from their captors. 
Anyone who loves adventure and drama will like this book. Daring Darleen, Queen of the Screen is full of action and unpredictable plot twists. Each chapter is suspenseful and leaves the reader wondering what will happen next.
|||||A conch shell discovered 90 years ago in France is now thought to be the oldest instrument of its kind. Researchers say it's about 18,000 years old.
The shell was found in a cave in France's Pyrenees region in 1931. Archaeologists thought it was an ancient cup. For decades, it sat in a natural history museum in the city of Toulouse. But recently, researchers took a fresh look at the shell. They found that the tip had been broken off to make a mouthpiece and sound holes had been added. When you blow into it, the shell can play three clear notes. 
Rasoul Morteza, a composer in Canada, has studied the sounds produced by shells. "It's amazing when there's an object forgotten somewhere," he says, "and suddenly, it comes again into the light."
|||||It’s good to know what’s going on in the world and in your community. Reporters keep us informed. They gather the facts and write news stories. Here’s how a reporter gets the scoop.
Reporters do research.  
Reporters read books and articles. They watch the latest news. This research helps them know what questions to ask. 
Reporters do interviews. 
Reporters talk to people. They ask questions. They listen carefully. Doing interviews helps a reporter uncover a story.  
Reporters write stories.   
After gathering the facts, reporters sit down to write. They add quotes from interviews to help tell the story.
Reporters check their work.  
Reporters tell the truth. They check their work to make sure they have gotten all the facts right. If they have made a mistake, they fix it.
Did You Know?
A reporter uses tools on the job. A notebook is good for jotting things down. A voice recorder is used to capture a conversation. 
|||||Donald Trump and Joe Biden are the two main candidates for president of the United States in the 2020 election. The candidates come from different backgrounds. They have different viewpoints and ideas about how to lead the country. Read about both candidates below. If you could vote for president, which candidate would you choose? 
Donald Trump
President Donald Trump was born in New York, New York. Today, he lives at the White House, in Washington, D.C. 
Before becoming president, Trump was in business. He constructed buildings and hotels and hosted a reality TV show.
Trump won the 2016 election. He is running for reelection. U.S. presidents can serve for a total of eight years. 
Trump likes to play golf in his free time. He likes eating ice cream, too. His favorite ice-cream flavor is cherry-vanilla. 
Joe Biden
Joe Biden was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania. He moved to the state of Delaware at age 10. That is the state Biden calls home today.
Biden was a U.S. senator. He represented the state of Delaware. He served in the Senate for 36 years.
Biden was vice president. He served with President Barack Obama for eight years, from 2009 to 2017.
Biden is a big fan of baseball and football. He also likes ice cream. His favorite ice-cream flavor is chocolate chip. 
|||||Think about your favorite movie or TV show. Do you know how it was
 made? Many people work together to bring movies and TV shows to the screen. Read on to find out about their jobs. Lights, camera, action!
Writing the Story

Screenwriters are people who write scripts for movies and TV. A script 
tells the actors what to say and do.
Looking into the Lens
Camera operators are in charge of working the camera. The camera 
captures the action on the set.
Playing the Part

Actors play the 
characters we see 
on screen. They tap
 into their emotions to 
bring their character 
to life.
Directing the Show 
A director turns a script into a movie or TV show. The director makes all the big decisions. He or she helps actors do their best work.
Did you Know?
Storyboard artists sketch the scenes of a
movie or TV show before filming begins. They have a
 vision for how each scene will look. This helps with planning.
|||||People all over the world make music. Here are instruments from different continents. Which instrument is your favorite? 
This is a guiro.
 
It comes from South America. The instrument is made from a hollow gourd. It has ridges. A player scrapes the ridges with a stick. 
This is an accordion.
 
It comes from Europe. The instrument has a keyboard and buttons. There is a bag in the middle. It is filled with air. A player pushes the two ends together and presses the keys and buttons.
This is a mbira.
 
It comes from Africa. The instrument is a wooden board. The board has keys. They are made of metal. A player plucks the keys with his or her thumbs. 
This is a guzheng. 
It comes from Asia. The instrument is made of wood. It has 21 strings. A players uses his or her fingers to pluck the strings.  
This is a didgeridoo.
 
It comes from Australia. The instrument is a long tube. It is made of wood. A player blows into the tube. The player uses his or her lips to create different sounds. 

|||||Who’ll become the Kid of the Year? The answer will be revealed December 4 on an hour-long TV special on Nickelodeon. Read about Jack Dalton, one of the top 20 finalists, below.
Jack, 10, from Nashua, New Hampshire, is committed to teaching kids about orangutans. He decided to devote his time to the animals after meeting one at the Memphis Zoo, in Tennessee. As a youth ambassador for the Orangutan Alliance, Jack now travels to schools, museums, and zoos around the country. He hopes to inspire people to care about the endangered apes. “I really want to protect animals,” Jack says. “That’s why I work for this cause. We need everyone to contribute to it.”
Jack is also passionate about the environment. To reduce plastic pollution, he sells reusable Kid Conservationist bags. They’re made of recycled materials. He donates all the profits to help orangutans.
This story was updated on November 20, 2020, to reflect a change to air date and network.
|||||Bread is a food made from flour and water. People have been eating bread for thousands of years. Different cultures make their own types of bread. Take a bread tour of the world.

Pumpernickel is from Germany.
This bread is dark brown. Pumpernickel can be baked in a warm oven for up to 12 hours.
Mantou is from China.
It is soft and chewy. It makes a great snack.
Injera comes from Ethiopia. 
It is soft and squishy, like a pancake. Stews and salads are served on top of it. To eat, you tear off small pieces of injera with your fingers. Then you use the bread to scoop up food. 
Sangak is from Iran. 
It is cooked on hot pebbles. The pebbles burn the bread in spots. This makes sangak crispy. 
Damper is from Australia. 
It is often cooked over a campfire. It was cooked by Australian cowboys
|||||
A train is a set of railway cars. Some trains carry people. Others carry goods. Trains can move along one track or two. Ready to ride? Chug along with TIME for Kids as we discover different types of trains. 

This is a freight train.
It carries heavy goods. Freight trains often travel long distances. What do you think this train is carrying in its containers?
This is a passenger train.
It carries people from place to place. It can travel across the country. Have you been on a train like this?
This is a monorail. 
It runs on one track instead of two. Monorails are powered by electricity. They are often used at airports and amusement parks.
This is a subway train.
People in big cities ride subway trains. These trains are powered by electricity. They run underground. 
Did You Know?
Trains can move very fast. They can’t stop quickly. That’s why there are signs and signals at railroad crossings. Always pay attention to these signs and signals. They help people stay safe.
|||||Meet Nick Cave. He is an artist. He plays with sound and motion. He uses different materials in his work. Cave is best known for his Soundsuits. They can spark our imagination. Are you ready to use your imagination? 
Step Inside
A Soundsuit is a sculpture you can wear. It looks and moves like a strange creature. 
Listen
A Soundsuit makes noise when it moves. This one is made of twigs and wire. What sound do you think it will make?
Watch
Dancers in Soundsuits move to a drumbeat. They waddle, shake, and shimmy. People stop and watch. They feel like they have stepped into a different world! 
Play
What does it feel like to wear a Soundsuit? No one can see who you are. You might feel like someone else, or something else. Cave says wearing a Soundsuit makes him feel free.
Did You Know?
The Soundsuits are made from bits and pieces. Cave uses sequins, buttons, blankets, toys, and more. What objects do you see in this Soundsuit? What objects would you use to make a Soundsuit of your own?
|||||On April 10, 1912, the Titanic set sail on its first voyage. The Titanic was a British luxury passenger ship. It was described as “unsinkable.” The ship set off from England. It was supposed to cross the Atlantic Ocean to New York. Many people were on board. 
This photo shows passengers walking on the deck of the Titanic in 1912.
Four days later, the Titanic struck an iceberg. The crash tore several holes in the ship. The Titanic flooded. It sank to the bottom of the sea in less than three hours. 
The Titanic was tall! It had 10 decks. Each floor had a different purpose.
 
Some people got safely into lifeboats. But there were not enough lifeboats for everyone. Many people drowned.
Looking Back
At the time, the Titanic was the biggest ship ever built. It was almost as long as three football fields. The Titanic took two years and many workers to construct. It had 10 decks, or floors. 
This is a painting of the Titanic as it sank. It took about two and a half hours for the ship to go down.

The ship’s first-class passengers were some of the wealthiest people in the world. They had fancy meals. They had their own rooms. The Titanic was also one of the first ships with electric lights in all of its rooms. 
Many of the passengers in second class and third class were tourists. Others were people who wanted to find a new life in America. They shared much smaller rooms. 
The Titanic sank more than 100 years ago. But scientists and historians still study the ship. They dive underwater and examine the shipwreck. What stories do you think they are piecing together? 
New Rules
This was a lifeboat from the Titanic. The ship carried only 20 of them.
New laws were passed after the sinking of the Titanic. They help keep people safe at sea. Today, passenger ships on long trips between countries must carry enough lifeboats. The Titanic did not have enough for everyone. That’s one reason why so many people died when it went down.
|||||Together, President-Elect Joe Biden and Vice President-Elect Kamala Harris have been named TIME’s 2020 Person of the Year. The news was announced on December 10.
“TIME has always had a special connection to the presidency,” 
editor in chief Edward Felsenthal says. “This is the first time we’ve also named a vice president as Person of the Year.” Harris’s election is historic, as she will be the first woman vice president. “Person of the Year is not just about the year that was,” Felsenthal says, “but about where we’re headed.” 

TIME also announced distinctions in four other categories. Guardian of the Year went to two groups. One was frontline health workers. They were recognized for their work protecting people against COVID-19 and caring for those affected by the disease. The other group was racial-justice organizers. Businessperson of the Year is Eric Yuan, the founder of Zoom; Entertainer of the Year is K-pop group BTS; and Athlete of the Year is LeBron James. Artwork for the TIME cover of James is by 14-year-old Tyler Gordon. He was a TIME Kid of the Year finalist.

Essential workers—“nurses, doctors, delivery people, grocery-store employees, and many others who continue to risk their lives on the front lines of the COVID-19 pandemic,” according to TIME—won TIME’s Person of the Year Reader Poll.

Stop and Think! Why does TIME pick a Person of the Year? Why does it also have a readers’ poll? Are you surprised that the results of the two are different? Explain.

|||||For our Earth Day special issue, we’re featuring three new books about our home—and the plants and animals that live here.
Hello, Earth!
Hello, Earth! Poems to Our Planet explores the extraordinary place we call home. Each poem is dedicated to the Earth’s wonders. These include its volcanoes, deserts, oceans, and more. Joyce Sidman is the book’s author. She told TIME for Kids she was inspired to use poetry to show young readers the beauty and importance of the environment. “It’s a wonderful way of writing about the world that shows us the mysterious . . . things that go on in nature,” she says. —By Karena Phan 
How to Change Everything
 How to Change Everything is a tool kit for young activists who want to protect the planet. The book explains both the chemistry and the politics of climate change. It was written by Naomi Klein. She has been writing about environmental activism for more than 15 years. “During that time, the movement has gotten younger and younger,” Klein told TFK. She believes that kids have the power to make a difference. Klein wants readers to speak up. “Young people are already leading the climate movement,” she says. “[They’re] raising the alarm and leading the way toward solutions.” —By Ellen Nam
The Elephant Doctor of India
 The Elephant Doctor of India tells the true story of Dr. Kushal Konwar Sarma. He grew up in a village in Assam, India. As a young boy, he loved elephants. But the elephants living in Assam didn’t have proper medical care. This motivated Sarma to become a veterinarian when he got older. Since realizing his dream, he has traveled all over Assam to heal and save elephants. Janie Chodosh tells Sarma’s story. She told TFK she hopes it will give kids “a sense of wonder” and “inspire them to care about the natural world.” —By Rebecca Mordechai
|||||The majority of shoppers in the United States have been eating at home more often since the pandemic began. That’s according to a 2020 report from Acosta, a marketing company. This means people are cooking more, too. And one way to make meals more delicious is science.
“There’s loads of chemistry in how different ingredients react to one another,” Kristin Sargianis told TIME for Kids. She’s the deputy editor at America’s Test Kitchen Kids. Sargianis says that “you can come up with your own recipe or tweak a recipe” if you take time to learn the science behind cooking. 
FOOD EXPERIMENT Kristin Sargianis teaches kids the secret to making the fluffiest popcorn.
Chef’s Creations
Samin Nosrat is a professional chef. She relies on science when creating recipes. Right now, Nosrat is developing a pizza dough recipe for kids. 
Many bakers use a stand mixer to knead dough. Kneading develops gluten. Gluten is a protein. It helps dough swell into a light, chewy bread. “But a lot of people don’t have stand mixers,” Nosrat says. She wanted to find a solution. So her recipe calls for more water than other pizza dough recipes. This means less kneading is required and more gluten can develop on its own.
Say “Cheese!”	
Science can also be used to adjust a recipe you enjoy. Take grilled cheese, for example. It’s delicious. But the cheese might not always melt smoothly. 
Sargianis has a tip. To make velvety grilled cheese, avoid aged cheeses, like extra-sharp cheddar. Cheeses age in a climate-controlled room. That develops flavor. But as time passes, a cheese loses water through evaporation. The resulting cheese has a drier texture.
It doesn’t melt well. Sargianis says that a young cheese, like mozzarella, is “full of water, and will be gooey” when melted. 
Whether making a favorite dish or a new one, getting curious about why foods taste and feel the way they do can make you a better cook. “The nice thing about cooking,” Nosrat says, “is that usually there is a ‘why’ to be explained.” 
|||||Jiyoon Han’s family owns Bean & Bean Coffee Roasters, a chain of coffee shops in New York and New Jersey. Some of them were closed for months because of COVID-19. When they reopened, employees had a problem: They kept running out of coins. “Getting change was just not possible for weeks,” Han told TIME for Kids.
Other businesses have had this issue. Supermarkets are asking customers to pay electronically or with exact change. Until recently, banks were unable to order their usual supply of coins from the government. What’s going on?

Money Problems

There’s a coin shortage in the United States. In spring 2020, fewer coins were made at the U.S. Mint because of COVID-19 health restrictions. In June, the government limited the distribution of coins to banks. 
Karen Dynan teaches economics at Harvard University, in Cambridge, Massachusetts. She has also worked for the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Dynan says there’s a bigger reason for the shortage. People aren’t going out and spending as much. “Coins have not disappeared,” she says. “They’re in people’s homes.”
In July, a U.S. Coin Task Force was created to fix the shortage. Things are beginning to improve. On January 13, the government said banks will no longer face limits on their coin orders. The coin shortage may soon be a thing of the past.
Do Coins Matter?

People aren’t using cash as much. Electronic payment has become more common. “We were already moving toward a cashless economy,” Dynan says. “The virus has just accelerated all of that.”
Tae Kang owns the New Look Hand Car Wash. That’s in Rochelle Park, New Jersey. “We’ve noticed more people paying electronically,” he says.
So do we still need coins? For now, the answer is yes. Dynan has a suggestion to help end the shortage. You can make “a special trip” to exchange your coins for bills at a bank or spend them at a store.
|||||Do you ride the bus to school? Most school buses run on diesel gas. It’s bad for the environment. It pollutes the air. It may also cause or worsen health problems. Some people want to switch to ELECTRIC BUSES. These buses run on batteries. They plug into charging stations. They’re better for the environment. 
Rafael Espinal is a lawmaker in New York City. He got more than $1 million for the city to buy electric buses. “I want to electrify our school buses and improve air quality for our students,” he told TIME for Kids.
|||||For 23 years, the Xerces Society for Invertebrate Conservation has held an annual monarch butterfly count. Volunteers visit spots on the West Coast where monarchs are known to gather. They count the insects to learn about the health of the species.

Xerces started counting in 1997. That year, it found more than a million monarchs. By 2018, that number had dropped to fewer than 30,000. In 2020, Xerces counted just 1,914 monarchs. 

A study was published in March in the journal Science. Researchers looked at decades’ worth of data on butterflies in the western United States. They found that butterfly populations are shrinking by almost 2% each year. 
“It compounds each year,” Matt Forister, the study’s lead author, told TIME for Kids. “Over time, it’s really bad.” 

Cause and Effect
Monarchs aren’t the only species of butterfly whose population is dropping. According to the study, most butterfly populations are.

Why? For one thing, humans are taking over their habitat. Butterflies need flowering plants for food and to lay eggs on. When new buildings and roads replace fields and forests, these plants are lost. Pesticides used by farmers and gardeners also harm the insects.

Forister’s research suggests climate change is to blame, as well. His team looked at “nice, natural areas” mostly unaffected by humans. Those are places one might expect to find many butterflies. But even there, the numbers were down. That led Forister and his team to believe that warming temperatures in the fall are harming the insects.

How to Help 
Growing flowering plants, like local milkweed, and avoiding pesticides can make a yard safe for butterflies. It’s also good to let it get messy. Butterflies use fallen leaves for protection.

“Insects are in our backyards, even if we don’t always see them,” Forister says. “Having a yard free of toxins . . . helps a lot.”  
|||||On March 28, Mina Fedor, 12, organized a rally with four friends: Bee, Anna, Juno, and Mila. It took place in Berkeley, California. More than 1,200 people joined them. The girls led a crowd onto a bridge across a freeway. Ralliers posted signs that spelled “♥ Our Asian Community.” Cars passing below honked in support. 

“We were grateful that so many people showed up,” Mina told TIME for Kids.  
YOUNG VOICES Kids stand up against anti-Asian prejudice, in Berkeley, California, on March 28.
Like many others, Mina and her friends are troubled by recent attacks against Asian Americans. Since the start of the coronavirus pandemic, in early 2020, discrimination and violence against Asian Americans has risen sharply. Elderly people are often targeted. 

The prejudice has been fueled by a false belief that Asians are responsible for the coronavirus. The virus was first detected in China in late 2019. But no one person, group, or country is to blame for the pandemic. 
ON THE MARCH Mina Fedor (center) and friends lead a rally near San Francisco Bay on March 28.
Russell Jeung cofounded Stop AAPI Hate. (AAPI stands for “Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.”) The group started noticing more hate incidents in the U.S. in January 2020. “We were immediately flooded with hundreds of incoming incidents” on Stop AAPI Hate’s website, Jeung recalls. From March 2020 through February 2021, the group got 3,795 reports of anti-Asian hate incidents. 
A Troubling History
Discrimination against Asians in the U.S. isn’t new. It began when Chinese immigrants arrived in large numbers, in the 1850s. They were seen as a threat to white workers’ jobs. In 1882, Congress passed the Chinese Exclusion Act, the first in a series of laws that banned most Chinese immigration until the 1940s. It told Asians they were not wanted, says Ellen Wu, a history professor at Indiana University. “Sometimes, Americans told Asians they were unwelcome through violence,” Wu told TIME for Kids. “Ultimately, they expressed it in the law.”
Chinese people fought the Exclusion Act in court. To this day, Asian Americans advocate for themselves. “They have pushed back and stood up” for respectful treatment, Wu says.
Still, many people are unaware that Asians experience racism. This is because of a myth that Asians are more successful than other minority groups. In fact, they have been unfairly held up as an example to other groups (see “The Model Minority Myth”).
All of Us Together
WE ARE ONE Compassion in Oakland volunteers pose for a photo while on neighborhood patrol in February.

Jessica Owyoung is a cofounder of Compassion in Oakland, in California. The group pairs Asian-American elders with volunteers who accompany them around town. “Elders feel alone and scared,” Owyoung says. “The only way they are going to know that we hear them and see them is to physically be there for them.”
HELPING HAND A volunteer for Compassion in Oakland meets with an Asian-American elder in February.
On March 30, President Joe Biden announced anti-discrimination actions to benefit the AAPI community. “Hate can have no safe harbor in America,” Biden said on March 19. “It’s on all of us, all of us together, to make it stop.”  

For Mina and her friends, showing you care can go a long way. “It’s important to be an ally,” says Mina’s friend Mila. “We’re all doing our part to help the cause."
The Model Minority Myth
The model minority myth is a widespread idea that Asians work harder and value education more than other minority groups do. This idea is harmful, as it leads to the false belief that Asians do not face racism and discrimination. 
The myth also creates false beliefs about other groups. “Working hard and valuing education and family—these are values common to all communities,” Wu says.
|||||Hillary and Chelsea Clinton have teamed up to write a picture book called Grandma’s Gardens. The main character is Grandma Dorothy. She’s Hillary’s mom and Chelsea’s grandmother. “I learned a lot about gardening from my mom,” Hillary told TFK Kid Reporter Zara Wierzbowski. “I hope the book encourages people to get involved with nature.” Gardening, Chelsea says, is an “activity that people of different ages and abilities can do together.” 
|||||Who’ll become the Kid of the Year? The answer will be revealed December 4 on an hour-long TV special on Nickelodeon. Read about Dylan Capshaw, one of the top 20 finalists, below.

This 14-year-old from Scottsdale, Arizona, has been supporting animal conservation efforts for years. In 2017, he started the Dylan Capshaw Wildlife Foundation. The nonprofit group raises money to rescue animals that need help. When the coronavirus pandemic began, Dylan turned his attention to frontline workers. He started another nonprofit, For the Frontline, through which he has shipped more than 3,000 3D-printed masks and face shields to healthcare and other essential workers around the country. “Whether it’s an animal or a person, I want to help whoever I can,” Dylan says. “I just hope people stop thinking that you have to be an adult to do something.”
This story was updated on November 20, 2020, to reflect a change to air date and network.
|||||March 8 was International Women’s Day. President Joe Biden marked the occasion by signing an executive order that promotes gender equity and equal rights for women and girls. 
The order establishes the White House Gender Policy Council. Its job is to ensure that gender equity is a priority in United States government policies. These policies affect people in the U.S. and around the world. 
Jennifer Klein and Julissa Reynoso will lead the council. Klein was an adviser to Hillary Clinton when Clinton was First Lady and secretary of state. Reynoso is chief of staff to First Lady Jill Biden. Reynoso also served as ambassador to Uruguay under President Barack Obama. 
At a press briefing on March 8, Reynoso said the council will work for women’s access to things like healthcare, fair pay, and education. “This is a matter of human rights, justice, and fairness,” she said.
This is not the first office of its kind. Under Obama, it was called the White House Council on Women and Girls. This one has a different name for a reason. “We intend to address all sorts of discrimination,” Klein said, “[and] fight for equal rights for people, whether that’s LGBTQ+ people, women, girls, [or] men.”
Stop and Think! What quotes does the article include? What do these quotes tell you about the Gender Policy Council? 
|||||Anna Semon is an archaeologist. That’s a person who finds and studies artifacts, or objects made by people in the past. Join TIME for Kids as we follow Semon on a dig and visit her in the lab. 
Semon leads trips in the state of Georgia. She looks for pieces of pottery, stone, and bone. She sometimes finds old tools. These objects help her learn about past cultures. 
First, she and her team look for a place to dig. Here, they walk along the water. The land is suffering from erosion. As artifacts are washed away, pieces of history are lost.
Semon and the team get to work. They mark off a digging area with brightly colored string. They use shovels, trowels, and other tools to excavate. They put the dirt through a screen. This helps them separate small artifacts from the soil. 
The team must be careful. Some artifacts are easily broken. After all, they can be as much as 5,000 years old! Finally, the team seals the artifacts in bags. The bags are carefully packed and sent to a lab in New York City.
After the dig, the lab work begins. Semon’s lab is at the American Museum of Natural History, in New York City. People there sort the finds. They use tweezers to separate them. The pieces can include bones, fish scales, and bits of metal or glass. 
Then the objects are ready to be cleaned. Wet or dry brushes are used to get the job done.
Semon looks at the artifacts through a microscope. Sometimes, she finds specks of quartz. That’s a mineral. It might have been added to the clay to help it dry. 
Each object tells Semon something about the people who made or used it. Does she ever find human fingerprints in the clay? “We do,” she says.
When the lab work is finished, the artifacts are stored in the museum’s collection rooms. These rooms are kept at controlled temperatures. They are also kept free of pests. This helps protect the artifacts.
At the AMNH, the North American collection alone has about 250,000 objects. Semon shows them to visiting researchers. “Each little piece gives us a new idea,” she says. “Every artifact has a story to tell.”
|||||Do you dream of being a reporter? Enter the TFK Kid Reporter Contest for a chance to report for our magazines and website. TFK Editors will choose 10 talented students as TFK Kid Reporters for the 2021-2022 school year. To apply online or by mail, ask a parent, guardian, or teacher for details, or learn more at timeforkids.com/kid-reporter. 
|||||Parts of the eastern United States and Midwest will witness an extraordinary natural event this spring. Trillions of Brood 10 cicadas are expected to emerge in mid-May after 17 years underground. They'll likely be around until late June or July. 
They come out to mate. Across 15 states, the cicadas will create a buzz as loud as a lawn mower—their mating call. It's the male cicada that's making all that noise, Michael Raupp told TIME for Kids. Raupp is an entomology professor at the University of Maryland, College Park. "It's going to be a big boy band up in the treetops," he says. 
Cicadas are believed to come out in huge numbers to overwhelm predators. Within a few weeks, females will lay hundreds of eggs, and then, as suddenly as they appeared, the cicadas will die. Their offspring, having tunneled into the ground, won't come out for another 17 years. 
"This unique event happens nowhere else on the planet," Raupp says. "The abundance of these cicadas is going to be amazing."
What's the Buzz?
Brood 10 is a family of what are known as periodical cicadas, meaning they come out once in a while­ instead of every year or every few years. Their rare appearance in such huge numbers is what makes them fascinating, Raupp says. "I think that's part of the mystery, and what makes them so magical." 
The cicadas emerge when soil temperatures reach 64°F. They crawl out from under the ground and fly up into trees. If you're standing outside, one might land on you. But don't worry: Cicadas aren't dangerous. The insects don't bite or sting. They might just give you a friendly little poke. 
Up in the trees, female cicadas lay their eggs. After their mission is accomplished, the insects fall to the ground and die. 
About six weeks later, the eggs develop into nymphs, or young insects, which tumble out of the trees and dig themselves into the earth. That's where they'll spend the next 17 years, feeding on root sap until they're ready to come out again. 
Raupp says it's a drama you just can't miss: "There's going to be birth, there's going to be death, there's going to be predation, there's going to be romance. There are going to be songs. Just go out and enjoy these things. This is only going to happen a handful of times in your lifetime." 
|||||Time flies! The first issue of TIME for Kids was published in September 1995. That means TFK is turning 25. To honor our 25th anniversary, we’re pulling TFK stories from the archives and highlighting them in this space. Each archival issue relates to something in the news today. We hope these stories provide background for the things you’ll read about.
In this week’s cover story, TIME for Kids looks at how museums are documenting the COVID-19 pandemic. They’re doing this so future generations can learn about life during this historic time.
Historians work to help us understand the past. In a November 1998 issue, we wrote about how explorer Franck Goddio found ruins of a palace under the sea. The palace belonged to Cleopatra. She ruled ancient Egypt more than 2,000 years ago. Goddio told TFK that he wished to build an underwater museum at the palace site, so that visitors could marvel at it. “To be there . . . is unbelievable,” he said.
|||||The Super Bowl is the National Football League’s championship game. It’s played each year on the first Sunday in February. The host stadium is usually packed with tens of thousands of fans. But this year’s game—between the Kansas City Chiefs and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, at the Raymond James Stadium, in Tampa, Florida—will be different.  
Due to the coronavirus pandemic, a limited number of spectators will be allowed to watch the game at the stadium. To honor the courageous heroes who have been working during the pandemic, the NFL has invited 7,500 vaccinated healthcare workers on an all-expenses-paid trip to attend the game. “These dedicated healthcare workers continue to put their own lives at risk to serve others,” NFL commissioner Roger Goodell said, in a statement. “We owe them our ongoing gratitude.” 
Even without a packed stadium, viewers can anticipate high levels of excitement. The big game will be broadcast on live TV. Millions of people will be watching. They’ll be able to enjoy the creative commercials aired during breaks in the action. Some longtime favorite ad characters might be missing, though. Many companies, including Coca-Cola, have put their ad funds toward causes that spread awareness of COVID-19.
The Kansas City Chiefs are competing in the Super Bowl for the second year in a row. They won last year’s game. The Tampa Bay Buccaneers will be making NFL history as the first team to play in a Super Bowl hosted at their home stadium. Additionally, all eyes are on the Buccaneers as they play under the leadership of legendary quarterback Tom Brady. Will the former New England star lead the Buccaneers to victory, as he did six times for the Patriots? Or will Patrick Mahomes and the Chiefs take home the trophy again?
No matter the outcome, Super Bowl LV is sure to be remembered for years to come. So grab a bowl of chips and your favorite dipping sauce, and tune in this Sunday at 6:30 p.m. ET.
|||||Go to the window. Look outside. Are there clouds in the sky? How many? Are they puffy? Are they wispy? Are they blocking sunlight? Or are they letting it through?
NASA scientists are interested in your answers. They’re using the power of “citizen science” to gather information about clouds from people all over the world. Amateur scientists contribute to professional research by making observations and sorting data.
DIY Research
Often, citizen scientists don’t need special training or equipment. It may not even matter where they live. Many participants are kids. 
“This is a fundamental, real way for young people to engage in science that is useful and important,” Darlene Cavalier says. She founded a website. It’s called SciStarter. It helps people find projects to participate in. 
For NASA’s GLOBE Observer program, volunteers submit cloud observations. Satellites photograph clouds from above. But volunteers study them from below. “By combining the two, we get a more complete picture,” says Jessica Taylor, of NASA. Researchers use the data to learn about climate change.
There are thousands of citizen science projects to choose from. You can measure light pollution, study the diet of ants, or locate bees. Sometimes, volunteers gather data from their own backyard. Other projects happen online. 
The COVID Effect
COVID-19 has halted or slowed some scientific research. Many scientists have not been able to travel to do their work. Citizen science helps fill in the gaps. Volunteers can submit data gathered wherever they live. 
With more people at home because of the pandemic, there are more volunteer scientists. In April, SciStarter saw five times more engagement than the year before. Cavalier hopes the increased interest continues.
“There are so many questions out there, and scientists do not yet have all the answers,” she says. “They need your help.”

|||||A conch shell discovered 90 years ago in France is now thought to be the oldest instrument of its kind. Researchers say it's about 18,000 years old.
The shell was found in a cave in France's Pyrenees region in 1931. Archaeologists thought it was an ancient cup. For decades, it sat in a museum. But recently, researchers took a fresh look at the shell. They found that the tip was broken off to make a mouthpiece. Sound holes had been added, too. If you blow into it, the shell can play three clear notes. 
Rasoul Morteza is a composer in Canada. He has studied the sounds produced by shells. "It's amazing when there's an object forgotten somewhere," he says, "and suddenly, it comes again into the light."
|||||A new COVID-19 vaccine has been approved for the United Kingdom (U.K.) and other countries. It's a step toward containing the spread of the disease worldwide.
The vaccine was developed by the University of Oxford and the drug company AstraZeneca. It's cheaper than other COVID-19 vaccines. Governments can buy it for a fraction of what those cost. It's also easier to transport and store. The Moderna and Pfizer vaccines must be kept frozen. This one can be stored longer in a normal fridge. 
Helen Fletcher is a professor of immunology in London. She calls the vaccine's approval "a turning point for the pandemic," as it was "developed to have global impact that includes people living in the . . . poorest regions of the world." Its makers hope to have enough for up to 20% of the world's population in 2021.
|||||Firefighters help keep people safe. They are ready to spring into action at any time. They often stay at the firehouse overnight. Let’s visit a fire station.
Suited Up
Firefighters wear  clothes and boots that keep them safe. The gear is always ready to go.
Let’s Slide
Firefighters need to act fast. They use a fire pole to quickly get from one floor to another. Whoosh! 
In the Kitchen 
Firefighters eat hearty meals. They cook them in the firehouse kitchen. 
Big Trucks
Fire trucks carry firefighters to the scene. The trucks carry equipment such as ladders, pumps, and hoses. The sirens on firetrucks are loud. They signal that help is on the way.  
Did You Know?
Water puts out many fires. Firefighters use a long hose that shoots water. They tap into the water supply using a fire hydrant. 
|||||Boats and ships carry people and things across water. They are used for business. They are also used for fun! Here are some ways to travel on water. Have you ever been on a boat?
This is a sailboat.
Its sails catch the wind. That pushes the boat forward. The sails must change direction with the wind. 
This is a ferry. 
Ferries transport people and sometimes cars. Some ferries let you bring your bike! Usually, ferries travel short distances. Most are powered by an engine.  
This is a cargo ship. 
Cargo ships carry heavy loads. They travel from one continent to another. They carry trade goods. They are powered by an engine. 
This is a rowboat.
People use oars to row the boat. A strong current can make it harder to row. 
Did You Know?
Not all boats travel above water. This is a submarine. It’s built to travel below the surface. Submarines let people explore the deep sea. Glub!
|||||Amanda Gorman, the country’s first National Youth Poet Laureate, captivated the world on January 20 when she read her poem “The Hill We Climb” at the presidential inauguration. It was soon announced that she’d recite a poem at the Super Bowl. Former First Lady Michelle Obama heard Gorman speak at the inauguration ceremony. Here, she interviews the 22-year-old about poetry, history, and hope.
I was moved as I watched you read your poem. How did you prepare yourself for a moment like that?
Everything was moving so quickly, I didn’t get to really sit down with the text until the night before. There was a lot of night-before performing in the mirror.
Poetry sometimes gets a bad rap. People think it’s all stuffy. How can we make poetry accessible and cool?
Poetry is already cool. Where we run into trouble is that often we are looking through such a tight pinhole of what poems can be. Where we can start is by highlighting and celebrating poets who reflect humanity in all of its diverse colors.
You have a mantra you recite to yourself before performing. Can you share it?
It’s inspired by Lin-Manuel Miranda’s lyrics in Moana, in “Song of the Ancestors.” Whenever I listen to songs, I rewrite them in my head. That song goes: “I’m the daughter of the village chief / We’re descended from voyagers who made their way across the world.” Something like that. I wanted something that I could repeat because I get so terrified whenever I perform. So my mantra is: “I’m the daughter of Black writers who are descended from freedom fighters who broke their chains and changed the world. They call me.”
“The Hill We Climb” mentions your being a descendant of slaves. What role does poetry have to play in helping you make sense of our history?
Poetry is the lens we use to interrogate the history we stand on and the future we stand for. It’s no coincidence that at the base of the Statue of Liberty, there is a poem. Our instinct is to turn to poetry when we’re looking to communicate a spirit that is larger than ourselves.
What was your experience of the inauguration? Were you able to listen to the performances and speeches, or were you just focused on what you came to do?
I was living in two spheres of my mind. There was the “Wow, Joe Biden’s speech was amazing. Lady Gaga just killed it.” At the same time, 66% of my brain was dedicated to questions: “How am I going to get up to the podium without tripping? My hands are cold. Am I going to be able to flip these pages?”
People know you as something of a prodigy—a poet who set the country on fire.
It’s easy, when you see someone who’s young have this type of astronomical life change, to think that it’s instantaneous. I want to highlight that this took a lifetime. Something I haven’t told anyone else is, for the past six years, whenever I’ve written a poem that I knew was going to be public or performed, I told myself, “Write the inauguration poem.” And what that meant for me is: Write a poem that is worthy of a new chapter in the country. Write something that is brave enough to be hopeful.
As you know, I have two daughters around your age. What does sisterhood mean to you and your twin?
As twins, we’re actually pretty dissimilar. But what bonds us isn’t our personalities; it’s our values. We’ve been raised like you, by a strong Black woman who taught us to value our ideas and our voices.
Do you have any advice for young girls, and Black girls in particular, who earn their way into the spotlight?
I would say to anyone who finds themselves suddenly visible and suddenly famous: Think about the big picture. You really have to crown yourself with the belief that what I’m about and what I’m here for is way beyond this moment. I’m learning that I am not lightning that strikes once. I am the hurricane that comes every single year, and you can expect to see me again soon.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
|||||Measurements have been used throughout history. But in the past, people had different ways of measuring than we do today. They used different tools. 
Tools of the Past

Long ago, people didn’t have rulers and scales. They had other ways to measure. People used their bodies and things around them to take measurements. 
A person’s body was used to measure length. A “foot” was about the length of a man’s foot. Stones and grains were used to measure weight. The sun, moon, and stars were used to mark the time or the date. 
But the tools were not always the same. So the results were not always the same. Over time, people made better tools. Today, we use standard measurements. The tools we use give us more precise results.
|||||
Beetles are insects. There are thousands of types. Beetles come in different shapes, sizes, and colors. Let’s learn more about these cool critters. Get ready to explore the world of beetles. 
Beetles are found almost everywhere. They like dark, wet places. Some live under logs and rocks. All beetles have six legs.
Some beetles eat leaves, fruit, and seeds. Others hunt for smaller insects. These beetles are predators. That means they eat other animals.
All beetles have four wings. Two are on the outside. They look like a hard shell. Two more wings are underneath. They are longer and softer. When a beetle flies, you can see all of its wings.
Some beetles have special qualities. Tiger beetles are speedy. Horned dung beetles are strong. Fireflies and click beetles can glow!

Did You Know?
A ladybug is a beetle. Try to find one in a park or garden. Look for its antennas. Can you spot two pairs of wings as the ladybug flies?

|||||A new virus is going around. It’s called the coronavirus. People around the world are working together to stop its spread. 
Everyone is doing their part. Doctors and nurses are caring for the sick. Scientists are working on a cure. Leaders are coming up with plans to protect us. And many people are staying home.
You Are Helping, Too!
Have you been staying home from school? If so, you are helping to keep the virus from spreading.
Staying apart from others is hard. But you can stay connected. Talk with a friend by phone or video. See how you can help out your parents or a sibling.
It’s also important to take care of yourself. Go outside and get fresh air. Stay active. Try a new art project. Look at a book or write in a journal. Share your feelings with family and friends. We can all work together! 
|||||This is a human skeleton. It is made of bones. Bones shape and support your body. They also protect your organs.
This is an X-ray of a human skull. The skull protects the brain. It gives shape to the face. It has 22 bones.
It is important to keep your bones healthy. Drinking milk or eating oranges helps. They have calcium. Calcium helps bones grow strong.
Have you ever broken a bone? Ouch! A doctor sets the bone in place. A cast protects it while it heals.
Your bones are under your skin. You need an X-ray machine to see them. An X-ray is a special type of picture. It shows doctors if a bone is broken.
Did You Know? 
Adults have 206 bones. Babies are born with about 300 bones. Bones are living things. As you get older, some bones fuse, or grow together. 

|||||As the delivery truck snaked its way over Northern California’s highways, analysts watched every aspect of its journey. They could see the stops the driver made. They knew the weather outside. Most important, they knew the condition of the precious cargo on board: thousands of doses of COVID-19 vaccine.
In the truck were boxes containing trays of the vaccine. Each tray held at least 975 doses, packed with sensors, tracking devices, and dry ice. In December, Pfizer became the first company to ship COVID-19 vaccine in the United States. The doses must remain frozen at between -112°F and -76°F. That’s colder than normal freezer temperatures. (Your home freezer is probably about 0°F.)
KEEP IT COLD A freezer at a hospital in Louisville, Kentucky, holds vials of the Pfizer vaccine. It’s being stored at -74° Celsius, or about -101° Fahrenheit.
The analysts spotted a problem. A couple of the trays had gotten too cold. A call was made to the truck driver, who was told not to deliver those trays. “They never left the truck,” Gustave Perna told reporters on December 16. He’s in charge of logistics for Operation Warp Speed, the U.S. vaccine program. “We returned them immediately.”
Shipping COVID-19 vaccine is tricky. Transporting millions of vials to each corner of the country is tough on its own. But keeping the doses properly frozen is even harder. To ensure safe delivery, the U.S. government, drugmakers, and delivery companies have developed a network of monitoring devices and detection systems.
Helpful Technology
Every box of Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine includes a GPS device, a temperature monitor, and a bar code that’s scanned once it reaches its destination. If the doses end up in the wrong location, or if the vials get too hot or cold, officials are immediately alerted. 
ON THE MOVE UPS employees in Louisville, Kentucky, receive a shipment of Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine. Boxes are then loaded onto trucks and sent out for delivery.
This information streams into the Vaccine Operations Center, in Washington, D.C. That’s where officials watch over Operation Warp Speed. There, dozens of analysts work behind rows of computer monitors. Four large screens glow with data about the day’s deliveries. The team there watched the temperature problem unfold in Northern California. Later, it saw the same issue in Mobile, Alabama. “Same anomaly,” Perna says.
This was one of the first delivery problems that Perna and his team faced. It won’t be the last. The trouble with the deliveries was an inconvenience. But officials were glad that the technology meant to detect it had worked. Replacement trays were sent to Alabama and California.
More On the Way
Another vaccine, made by the company Moderna, is now being distributed. It requires long-term storage and shipping at -4°F. That’s far less cold than the Pfizer vaccine requires. And more vaccines are nearing approval.
READY TO GO In the U.S., distribution of COVID-19 vaccines began in December. Here, workers in Olive Branch, Mississippi, prepare to ship Moderna’s vaccine.
To keep track of it all, the government developed new software. It’s called Tiberius. It lets state and federal agencies see their orders and track their vaccines within the areas they serve. “They can dive in and really go into great detail on making decisions,” says Operation Warp Speed’s Deacon Maddox.
Each Thursday, vaccine producers tell Operation Warp Speed how much vaccine is available for the upcoming week. On Friday, Tiberius runs a program to determine how many doses are available to each state. On Saturday, states finalize their orders. Deliveries arrive on Monday.
IT'S HERE A worker takes a box of the Pfizer vaccine to the pharmacy at Boston Medical Center, in Massachusetts, on December 14.
Operation Warp Speed had hoped to vaccinate 20 million Americans against COVID-19 by the end of 2020. According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), about 4.5 million people had gotten a dose by January 4. Former CDC director Dr. Tom Frieden told TIME that the country “should be focusing on getting the vaccine out as rapidly, as widely, and as equitably as possible.”
The first people to be vaccinated have been healthcare workers and the elderly. But even with technology lending a helping hand, a vaccine isn’t expected to be available to most Americans until at least spring. 
GETTING A SHOT Dr. Anthony Fauci receives his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine, on December 22.

|||||Who’ll become the Kid of the Year? The answer will be revealed December 4 on an hour-long TV special on Nickelodeon. Read about Bellen Woodard, one of the top 20 finalists, below. 
Bellen Woodard, 9, is a “crayon activist.” She saw there were no crayons to match some of the skin tones in her classroom. So she began to “change the language” about skin-colored crayons. She used her own money to make packets of crayons in diverse skin tones. She gave them to other kids. Bellen now has her own brand of multicultural crayons. It’s called Bellen’s More than Peach.
|||||Joe Biden will be the 46th president of the United States. He won the 2020 presidential election. He ran against President Donald Trump. The win was announced on November 7. That was four days after Election Day. 
Harris and Biden stand onstage with family, including spouses Doug Emhoff and Jill Biden, on November 7.
“America, I’m honored that you have chosen me to lead our great country,” Biden wrote on Twitter on November 7.
Kamala Harris will be vice president. She will be the first woman to have the job. She will be the first Black vice president. And she will be the first Indian-American vice president.
“While I may be the first woman in this office, I will not be the last,” Harris said.
Biden receives the Medal of Freedom from President Barack Obama in January 2017.
More Americans voted in this election than in any in U.S. history. Many voted by mail. That’s because of the pandemic. It took more time to count the mail-in votes. This delayed the results. 
Trump does not agree with the results. He has questioned the voting process. But there has been no sign of a major problem.
Harris FaceTimes with a girl’s grandmother after a rally in Iowa in September 2019.
Biden and Harris will be sworn in on January 20, 2021. That is Inauguration Day. Yet they are already hard at work. They are putting together a team. They are coming up with plans. There are challenges ahead. But Biden and Harris say they will work to unite the country. “I will work as hard for those who didn’t vote for me as I will for those who did,” Biden said in his victory speech.
Many U.S. presidents have had pets. Biden has two dogs. They are German shepherds. One is named Champ. The other is Major (pictured). Biden adopted him from a shelter. Major will be the first shelter dog to live in the White House. He and Champ will keep each other company. 
|||||Some caves are full of art. Thousands of years ago, humans drew on their walls. Cave art can teach us something about people who lived long ago. Take a look.
Magura Cave, Bulgaria
These paintings show scenes of hunting, dancing, and other important activities. 
Cueva de las Manos, Argentina
 This Cave of the Hands is quite a sight. Humans stencilled their hands on the walls thousands of years ago.
Leang Bulu' Sipong 4, Indonesia
This is a hunting scene. The drawing was made 44,000 years ago. It is the oldest known cave art to tell a story. 

|||||Mindfulness is taught in many schools. Kids learn deep breathing, movement, and how to relax. Mindfulness can help people in different ways. Read on to learn more.

Calm Down
Mindfulness helps people relax. It calms the body. It also quiets the mind.
Be Happy
Mindfulness helps people feel good. It reduces anger and sadness. It is said to boost happiness.
Stay Focused
Mindfulness helps people pay attention. It can help kids do well in school.
Connect with Others
Mindfulness helps people get along. It increases feelings of empathy. Empathy is the ability to understand and share other people’s feelings.
Did You Know? 
You can practice mindfulness. 
Here is one way. Try it.

1) Sit down. Close your eyes.   
2) Count to four as you breathe in.
3) Count to four as you breathe out.
4) Repeat three times.
|||||Are you a big sports fan? If so, chances are you’ve read articles by a sports journalist. The writer may have broken down a game or profiled one of your favorite athletes. 
Sean Gregory is a senior sports correspondent for TIME magazine. He told TIME for Kids that being a sportswriter involves more than just going to games. Like all good journalists, Gregory takes specific steps to write a story.  
First, he decides which people he wants to interview. Gregory says that getting several perspectives adds interesting layers to an article. That’s why he doesn’t talk to just athletes but also to coaches and spectators. 
Next, Gregory puts together a list of questions. He says the questions are intended to “elicit passionate answers.”
TALKING TO THE PROS As a sports journalist for TIME, Sean Gregory has spoken with stars such as LeBron James and Serena Williams.
Sportswriters also need to understand data compiled by sports analysts. Sports analysts use statistics to predict trends. 
“Analytics has become a bigger part of my job,” Emily Kaplan says. She’s a hockey reporter for ESPN. Kaplan says that writing about hockey includes analyzing which players are most valuable. “The way that we quantify a lot of those things [is] through statistics and through math,” she says. 
A Pandemic at Play
The pandemic has changed how sports journalists work. Many sports were canceled in the spring. Some resumed over the summer and fall. As a safety measure, reporters are either not permitted to go to games or allowed only in small numbers. 
Gregory hasn’t been to a game in months. He speaks to players on Zoom calls. But he misses chatting with fans at events. Sometimes, “they say funny things that enliven stories,” he says.
For now, many sports journalists are busy writing articles that take place off the field, court, or rink. Kaplan wrote about how COVID-19 impacted the finances of National Hockey League owners. Gregory reported on how coronavirus shutdowns affect athletes’ mental health. “What this pandemic has taught all of us is that we just need to find ways to adapt,” Kaplan says.

|||||The Democratic Party will control both chambers of the United States Congress for the next two years. That is the result of two runoff elections for the U.S. Senate in Georgia. They took place on January 5.

Democrats Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff were declared winners in those races on January 6. Each defeated a member of the Republican Party.
Both wins are historic. Ossoff will be Georgia’s first Jewish senator. Warnock will become the state’s first Black senator. “We proved that with hope, hard work, and the people by our side, anything is possible,” he said in a victory speech.
Democrats already have a majority in the House of Representatives.  Now the Senate will have 50 Republicans and 50 Democrats. As vice president, Democrat Kamala Harris will be able to cast tiebreaking votes. This will make it easier for President Joe Biden, a Democrat, to enact his policy agenda. Biden takes office on January 20.
The runoff elections were held because none of the candidates earned a majority of the votes in November’s general election. When this happens, Georgia law says the two candidates with the most votes must face off in another election.
|||||Welcome to the farm! Farms are places where food is grown or raised. Life on the farm is fun—and busy! See for yourself. Let’s visit a farm together. 
Many farms grow crops. These fruits and vegetables start as seeds. Farmers plant seeds. The seeds need water and sunlight to grow. 
Dairy farms raise cows for milk. Poultry farms raise chickens for meat and eggs. Kids who live on a farm often have chores, or special jobs. This girl is collecting eggs. How helpful! 
It’s harvest time! Crops are ready to be picked. Fruits and vegetables can be harvested by machine. They can also be picked by hand. This girl is harvesting carrots. 
Food from the farm goes to restaurants, stores, and markets. Food fresh from the farm tastes great! 
Did You Know?
There are farms all over the world. This is a rice farm. It is in Vietnam. That is a country in Asia. Vietnam is a top rice-growing country. Rice needs lots of water to grow

|||||Take two puppets, add former First Lady Michelle Obama, and you have a winning recipe for a new food show. Waffles + Mochi premieres on Netflix on March 16. It features kids, celebrity guests, and incredible chefs. 
Aspiring chefs Waffles and Mochi travel around the world in a magical shopping cart, learning about different foods and cultures. Obama plays the owner of the supermarket where they work. Each episode highlights a special ingredient, such as pickles or mushrooms.
TFK Kid Reporter Bellen Woodard interviewed Waffles, Mochi, and Obama. She asked them to name the show’s key ingredient. All three agreed on the answer: “love.”  Obama added a few more ingredients to the list: “Friendship and people belonging,” she said. 

|||||Bird-friendly building design is required in only a few places in the United States. One is San Francisco. That’s a city in California. Another is the state of Minnesota. A new building law also went into effect in New York City. That was in January. 

Mike Quigley is a U.S. congressman. He represents Illinois. Quigley is trying to pass a national law. It would require U.S. government buildings to be bird-friendly. “Eventually, I’d like to think that no one would build a building anywhere without doing this,” he told TIME for Kids. 
“We have to do our part to ensure that our society has the smallest impact on the plants and animals that live with us,” Quigley says. “One way to do that is bird-safe buildings.” 
Connie Sanchez agrees. She works for the National Audubon Society. “Talk to your lawmakers about this issue,” she says. “Get them to understand how important it is.”
|||||Wildlife trafficking happens all around the world. Animals are illegally taken and sold for money. Below are some of the most trafficked animals on Earth. 
TIGERS are poached in Asia. They are hunted for their claws, skin, and bones. These are used to make medicine and to show off a person’s wealth. There are only about 3,800 tigers left in the wild.
About three African RHINOS are poached each day. People hunt them for their horns. The horns are trafficked, or sold illegally. They are used as medicine. Some are made into jewelry.
ELEPHANT tusks are made of ivory. It is a hard, white material. Tusks are often bought illegally. They are used to make decorative items. In Africa, about 55 elephants are poached each day. 
TURTLES are trafficked as live animals in Asia. They are sold as pets or as meat. More than 10,000 black spotted turtles have been taken by authorities in recent years. 
|||||For months, we’ve been asking, “who will become Kid of the Year?” The answer was revealed on December 4 during a TV special on Nickelodeon. Out of more than 5,000 nominees, Gitanjali Rao won the top honor. Academy Award–winning actor and TIME contributing editor Angelina Jolie spoke to Gitanjali about her work.
“Observe, brainstorm, research, build, and communicate.” That’s what the brilliant young scientist Gitanjali Rao told me about her innovation process. She spoke over Zoom from her home, in Colorado, during a break in her virtual schooling. At 15 years old, Gitanjali has been selected as TIME’s first-ever Kid of the Year.
Gitanjali told me about her astonishing work using technology to tackle issues ranging from contaminated drinking water to cyberbullying. She also talked about her mission to create a global community of young innovators that can solve problems the world over. Even over video chat, Gitanjali’s brilliant mind and generous spirit shone through, along with her inspiring message to other young people: Don’t try to fix every problem, just focus on one that excites you. “If I can do it,” Gitanjali says, “anybody can do it.” —By Angelina Jolie
1. When did you know science was a passion of yours?
I feel like there wasn’t really one specific aha moment. I was always someone who wanted to put a smile on someone’s face. That was my everyday goal. And it soon turned into “How can we bring positivity and community to the place we live?” And then, when I was in second or third grade, I started thinking about “How can we use science and technology to create social change?”
2. One of your latest innovations helps prevent cyberbullying. Could you tell me about that?
Yeah, absolutely. It’s a service called Kindly—there’s an app and a Chrome extension. It is able to detect cyberbullying at an early stage, based on artificial- intelligence technology.
3. It’s so exciting to have such a forward-thinking, young, and female, inventor. Does that affect you in any way?
There are so few women in science and tech.I don’t look like your typical scientist. My goal has really shifted from creating my own devices to solve the world’s problems to inspiring others to do the same. Because, from personal experience: It’s not easy when you don’t see anyone else like you. So I really want to put out that message that anyone can do it.
4. I know you have these “innovation sessions.” Tell me about those.
I just looked at what worked for me and decided to share it with everyone else. It started with a simple presentation. Now I’ve partnered with rural schools, girls in STEM organizations, museums all across the world, and bigger organizations, like the Royal Academy of Engineering in London, to run innovation workshops.
5. That’s insanely impressive. What are you doing now?
I’m currently working on an easy way to help detect [biological] contaminants in water—things like parasites.
6. Is the environment something that’s very much on your radar?
Our generation is facing so many problems that we’ve never seen before. But then at the same time, we’re facing old problems that still exist. More than anything right now, we need to find that one thing we’re passionate about and solve it. Everything makes a difference. Don’t feel pressured to come up with something big.
7. When you’re not doing all of these amazing things, what do you do that’s just a 15-year-old thing?
I bake. It’s not good, but it’s baking. And it’s science, too.
8. So the science of the kitchen is not your specialty? 
I guess not. To be fair, most of the time we don’t have eggs at home, or flour, so I have to go online and search “eggless, flourless, sugarless cookies.” I made bread recently and it was good, so I’m proud of myself.
|||||Popsicles are a summer treat. But are they good fuel for playing outside? Here are some healthy snack ideas from cookbook author Katie Kimball.
1. Make a System. A snack schedule makes everyone happier. Create one with your family. Then you won’t wonder when your next snack will be.
2. Read food labels. Is high-fructose corn syrup a top ingredient? If so, save that snack for a special time.
3. Think: “satisfying.” A snack should take the edge off your hunger. Choose snacks that will not make you too full. 
4. Say yes to protein and fat. Try a cheese stick with grapes. Or have nut or seed butter with an apple or toast. 
5. Try new recipes. Cooking is a fun summer activity. Scroll down to find my ranch-dip recipe. 
Mrs. Kimball's Ranch Dip
Ingredients
1 cup of sour cream, plain yogurt, or mayo 
½ teaspoon of dried parsley

¼ teaspoon of dried dill weed
¼ teaspoon of dried chives

½ teaspoon of onion powder
¼ teaspoon of garlic powder

¼ teaspoon of salt 
1 teaspoon to 1 tablespoon of red wine vinegar  
milk (optional)
 Instructions
1. Choose the base (sour cream, plain yogurt, or mayo). You can mix more than one together.
2. Measure the base into a glass jar with a lid.
3. Measure all the dry ingredients into the jar. If you don’t have one of the dried herbs, use more of another green herb. If you don’t have the onion or garlic, use more of the other.
4. Measure 1 teaspoon of vinegar into the jar.
5. Mix the ingredients with a spoon until everything looks the same.
6. Taste the dip on a veggie stick. If you’d like it more tangy, add 1 or 2 more teaspoons of vinegar.
7. To make a dressing that pours, add milk. Add it a little at a time until you like the texture.
8. Store in the refrigerator. Serve with raw veggies or salad.
Note: The flavor will get a little stronger after a few hours. This will happen as the herbs soak into the base. You can always add a bit more herbs if you’d like more flavor.
Recipe from Kids Cook Real Food, where Katie Kimball and kids have taught more than 50,000 families how to safely cut veggies!
|||||There’s a new statue in Central Park, in New York City. It marks the 100th anniversary of the 19th Amendment to the United States Constitution. In 1920, that amendment gave women the right to vote. 
The monument features Sojourner Truth, Susan B. Anthony, and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. They fought for women’s voting rights­. 
Artist Meredith Bergmann created the sculpture. She wanted to show these women working toward a common goal. “They knew each other,” Bergmann says. “They worked on the same causes. They spoke at the same conventions.” Each is shown doing what she did best. “Truth is speaking, Anthony is organizing, and Stanton is writing,” Bergmann says. She calls these activities “the ingredients of activism.”
But the history behind the scene is complicated. And the statue invites a closer look at our country’s past. 
A Closer Look
Evette Dionne wrote Lifting as We Climb. It’s a book for young people about Black women in the suffrage movement. Anthony and Stanton were white. Dionne says the women fought to end slavery. But they also worked with people who supported segregation. Their decisions, Dionne says, “caused harm to Black people for generations.” 
Black people have long taken the lead in the civil rights movement. That’s why Truth was added to the statue. The original plan included only Anthony and Stanton. Bergmann says they should be honored even as we learn about their flaws. “The people we admire looked beyond their own life and tried to fight for great ideals,” she notes. 
Dionne says the statue is just a step toward learning more about history. She offers this advice: “I encourage kids to think, ‘When I am being told this history, who is missing? And how can I find out more about those people?’”

|||||Scientists have discovered what may be the smallest reptile on Earth. The species is called Brookesia nana, or nano-chameleon. It lives in the rainforest in northern Madagascar. The finding was published in the journal Scientific Reports.
Researchers found two of the chameleons, male and female. The male is less than an inch long and fits on a fingertip. The female is larger, at a little more than an inch long.
Chameleons are threatened by deforestation. That’s true of many rainforest species. But there is good news. Oliver Hawlitschek is a biologist at the Center of Natural History in Hamburg, Germany. He says the chameleon’s habitat has been placed under protection. “The species will survive,” he says.
|||||On Thursday night, President Donald Trump and former vice president Joe Biden met for this election’s second and final presidential debate. The debate took place at Belmont University, in Nashville, Tennessee. The moderator was Kristen Welker of NBC News. For more than 90 minutes, the candidates spoke about how they would address key issues facing the country. These included climate change, racism, the economy, and healthcare.
This debate was calmer than the first one between the candidates, on September 29. Trump and Biden spent that meeting speaking over each other. That made it hard to follow what was being said. New rules were put in place for Thursday’s debate. At some moments, one candidate’s microphone was turned off while the other person was speaking.
Welker’s first question was about the coronavirus pandemic. Biden pointed out that there are 70,000 new COVID-19 cases every day. “I will end this,” he said about the pandemic. “I will make sure we have a plan.” The president spoke about vaccine development. “It will be by the end of the year . . . I think it has a good chance,” he said.
THE MODERATOR Kristen Welker of NBC News speaks during the final presidential debate of the 2020 election. During the 90-minute debate, Welker asked the candidates about important issues facing the country.
Welker’s final question was about leadership. Each candidate took the opportunity to make his final pitch.
President Trump promised to rebuild the economy. “We have to make our country totally successful,” he said. “Success is going to bring us together.”
Biden said, “What is on the ballot here is the character of this country. Decency, honor, respect, treating people with dignity.”
Election Day is November 3. Voter enthusiasm is high. The United States Elections Project released new data this morning. At that point, 50 million people had voted early, at polling sites or by mail. 
|||||Imagine you’re part of an experiment. There are two groups. Members of the first group get $10 to spend however they wish. Members of the second group also get $10, but they must use it to help others. Which group would you rather be part of? Which would make you happier?
Researchers at Kindlab analyze the results of studies like this. Kindlab is a division of the nonprofit group Kindness.org. The Kindlab team is interested in the effect that helping others has on the person doing the helping. 
Kindlab’s goal is to use scientific data to spread good deeds around the world. Oliver Curry is a research director at Kindlab. “The more we understand why people are kind, the better we’ll be able to . . . make the world a kinder place,” Curry told TIME for Kids. 
MAKING CONNECTIONS At a TEDx Talk in 2019, Kindlab research director Oliver Curry uses scientific data to explain the benefits of kindness.
Gathering Data
In 2018, Kindlab researchers published a report called “Happy to Help?” They analyzed 27 experiments by other researchers comparing how people felt when they helped others with how they felt when they didn’t. “What we found when we aggregated the results is that helping does make you happy,” Curry says.
SPARKING JOY In 2019, Kindness.org researchers randomly stopped people who were walking together in Brooklyn, New York. They asked the people, including those pictured above, to compliment each other. This exercise sparked connection and joy.
Anyone can contribute to the work Kindlab is doing by becoming a volunteer scientist. Volunteers gather data for research projects. Kindlab has more than 400 volunteer scientists in 45 countries. Jaclyn Lindsey is Kindness.org’s chief executive and cofounder. “We’re committed to putting out content and programs that are credible,” she says. “Being rooted in data helps ensure we can do that.”
Volunteer scientists helped Kindlab and Harvard University on a big project. This project evaluated the costs—in terms of money, time, and effort—of a specific kind act. Then it looked at how beneficial the act would be to others. Volunteers filled out surveys to rate both the cost and benefits of good deeds. Researchers then analyzed the data to determine which deeds were most cost-effective (see “Good Deeds”). 
According to Curry, Kindlab will use the information to create the first database of recommended acts of kindness. It will help people make informed choices about the kind acts they perform.
Engaging Students 
Kindness.org is also working to spread empathy in classrooms. This year, the group launched a curriculum called Learn Kind in 741 classrooms worldwide. It encourages students to take a scientific approach to kindness. “We’re giving students a few ideas of kind acts to try and asking them to report back on the experience,” Curry says. 
KIND CLASSMATES Bradley Evans, a counselor at a school in Houston, Texas, leads students in a virtual Learn Kind lesson.
Nine-year-old Kushagra Kumar, from Houston, Texas, has enjoyed being part of Learn Kind. For one activity, he was asked to find out whether quarantine would limit kindness. But for him, quarantine actually presented more opportunities for helping others. “I sent video messages to my grandma telling her that I love her,” Kushagra says. How did he feel after the call? “Happy!”
PUTTING IN THE WORK Kushagra Kumar, 9, completes a Learn Kind assignment.
Good Deeds 
In May, Kindness.org published a report listing the most cost-effective acts of kindness during a pandemic. These actions can be taken while social-distancing or in quarantine. 
Volunteer scientists helped the organization put the report together. They rated how much effort goes into a specific act and how beneficial the act is. The list shown here features the top-five easiest and most effective acts of kindness, according to Kindness.org. 
Say thank you to someone who made your meal possible.
Cover your mouth when you cough.
Be on time for video calls.
Tell the people you love how you feel about them.
Video call your parents or grandparents.
Correction: A previous version of this story incorrectly noted that the Learn Kind curriculum is in more than 450 schools worldwide. It is in 741 classrooms worldwide.
|||||A hurricane is a mass of clouds and thunderstorms. It spins around a still center. The center is called the “eye.” A hurricane is like a giant engine. It uses warm air as fuel. There’s plenty of that in the Atlantic Ocean during hurricane season.

A hurricane starts as a tropical storm. It’s called a hurricane when winds reach 74 miles per hour. Then the hurricane is rated. It gets a number, 1 to 5. The number depends on wind speed. A Category 5 hurricane is the strongest. Winds can top 157 miles per hour. This storm can cause great damage. 
The National Hurricane Center (NHC) is located in Florida. Its scientists watch the oceans. They study images from satellites in space. They use computers to analyze data. They let people know if a big storm is on the way.
A scientist at the National Hurricane Center watches an Atlantic storm on his monitor.
 
The NHC also sends airplanes into hurricanes. The planes bounce on strong winds. They fly straight into a storm’s eye. Scientists on board collect data. “There’s none better than the NHC when it comes to forecasting hurricanes in real time,” James P. Kossin says. “It helps emergency planners prepare for a busy season.” 
|||||A rare event is taking place this spring. Trillions of Brood 10 cicadas have just spent 17 years underground. But in May, they will emerge. They will create a buzz as loud as a lawn mower. And by June or July, they will be gone. Their offspring will do the same thing in another 17 years. 
Cicadas come out to mate. The buzz you hear is their mating call. It’s the males that make all the noise. Michael Raupp studies insects at the University of Maryland, College Park. He says there will be plenty of drama. “There’s going to be birth. There’s going to be death. There’s going to be predation. There’s going to be romance. There are going to be songs,” he told TIME for Kids. 
Brood 10 cicadas last emerged across the eastern United States in 2004

The cicadas will emerge when soil temperatures reach 64°F. The insects crawl out of the ground and fly up into the trees. If you’re standing outside, one might climb up your arm. But cicadas aren’t dangerous—they don’t bite or sting. “This unique event happens nowhere else on the planet,” Raupp says. “Just go out and enjoy these things.”
|||||The world is full of people doing important jobs. Here are some of them. Read about how these people make a difference in our communities. 
They keep us healthy.  

If you are hurt or sick, doctors and nurses can help. These people take care of us. They know how to help us feel better. 
They keep us safe. 
Firefighters look out for us. They keep our communities safe.  
They teach us. 
Education is important. Teachers work hard to help us learn. Do you have teachers who are helpful? Thank them for everything they do.
They feed us. 
So many people help us get the food we eat. Some grow it. Some drive it to stores. Others work in the stores where we buy it. 
Did You Know?
It’s a good idea to thank the people who look out for us. Write a letter. Tell someone in your community that you appreciate him or her.
|||||Rebekah Bruesehoff, 14, enjoys playing field hockey, baking, and reading fantasy books. She's also an activist. Rebekah advocates for transgender rights. People who are transgender don't identify with the gender assigned to them at birth. "When I was born, everybody thought I was a boy," Rebekah told TIME for Kids. "But I deeply know myself to be a girl. It's just who I've been forever."
At age 8, she changed her gender pronouns and started going by Rebekah. "When I went out in the world as Rebekah, that really changed everything for me," she says. "It made me happier, more confident, and I just felt like me."
Two years later, in 2017, Rebekah made headlines after speaking at a rally for transgender children's rights in her home state of New Jersey. Ever since then, she's been using her voice to make a difference.
Stand Up, Speak Out
To Rebekah, being an activist means speaking up about a topic or cause you care about. She advocates for transgender and all LGBTQ rights in the hope that all kids can be themselves and feel safe and accepted. "I know kids like me aren't always supported in their communities," Rebekah says. "So I knew I needed to fix that."
Rebekah speaks to groups, writes articles, and meets with leaders and politicians. In 2018, she spoke at the New Jersey state legislature in support of a bill that called for schools to teach a more inclusive curriculum. Last month, Rebekah was a special guest at the swearing-in ceremony of Delaware senator Sarah McBride. McBride is the first openly transgender state senator in United States history.
In 2019, Rebekah was featured in an episode of Marvel's Hero Project, a streaming series that highlights kids who are doing amazing things in their community. That same year, she began what is now one of her passions: her book drive. Rebekah collects books with LGBTQ characters, because "representation matters," she says. She donates the books to libraries and schools in need of inclusive stories. The book drive is one way Rebekah works to shatter stereotypes about transgender people. "Transgender kids are just like everybody else around you," she says. "It's probably the least exciting part of me."
Rebekah has a message for kids struggling to be accepted for who they are. "You are not alone, and there are people fighting for you," she says. "There are people who will love you no matter who you are."
|||||Raya and the Last Dragon is a new animated Disney movie. It’s an epic adventure set in the fantasy world of Kumandra. The story follows Raya, a warrior princess. She’s on a quest to find a dragon who can save her land and unite its people.
The movie is inspired by the cultures and people of Southeast Asia. Kelly Marie Tran plays Raya. “She is a fighter,” Tran told TFK Kid Reporter Abby Rogers. Tran believes representation is important in movies. “I think it is really important to see yourself in a character and see yourself in stories,” she says. 
|||||More than 1 billion tons of food are wasted each year, according to a new report from the United Nations. That’s 17% of the food produced globally in a year.
Most waste happens at home, the report says. People buy too much food, or they throw it away too soon because of the date on the package. To a lesser degree, waste also happens in restaurants and stores. Concern about food waste has grown because of the toll food production takes on the environment. Farming, packaging, and transporting food all produce greenhouse-gas emissions.
Experts say governments need to do more to track food waste and promote better habits. Richard Swannell is one of the report’s authors. He hopes awareness will lead people to value food more. “Food is too important to waste,” he says.
|||||What is the body’s largest organ? Skin! Skin is the body’s outside layer. It protects your body. Here’s the scoop on skin.
In Control 

Skin helps keep the body at the right temperature. We get goose bumps when it’s cold. We sweat when it’s hot.
Gentle Touch
Skin has nerve endings. They send  messages to the brain when we touch things. How do you think this cat’s fur feels?
Young and Old

Skin changes with age. Look at the baby’s skin. It is soft and smooth. Look at the grandmother’s skin. It is wrinkled.
Freckle Face
Skin can have freckles. Some freckles are caused by the sun. They show that the skin is sensitive to the sun’s rays.
Did You Know?
The sun’s rays are strong. They can damage your skin. Are you going outside? Remember to wear sunscreen. It protects against sunburns.
|||||